## 3.2 Fairness as a constraint on profit-seeking: Kahneman et al. (1986)

Kahneman et al. (1986) presents subjects with a series of market scenarios to assess intuitions about fairness in market contexts. In a price gouging example, subjects were given the prompt:

A hardware store has been selling snow shovels for $ 15. The morning after a large snowstorm, the store raises the price to $ 20.

Please rate this action as: 1) Completely Fair 2) Acceptable 3) Unfair 4) Very Unfair

In the original paper, 82% of respondents reported either 'unfair' or 'very unfair.' A natural and interesting question is whether these views depend on a respondent's political commitments and attitude toward markets. I once ran a similar experiment with MTurk

workers asking about the fairness of Uber's so-called 'surge' pricing. Attitudes were remarkably malleable based on how surge pricing was framed. 5 One could imagine a dose-response relationship, with higher prices seen as more egregious.

To explore these questions, I gave the original prompt to a GPT-3 text-davinci-003 agent but added some additional variables. First, rather than keep just a single $ 20 new price, I varied it with prices of $ 16, $ 20, $ 40, and $ 100. I allowed the framing of the price change to be either neutral 'changes the price to' versus the original 'raises the price to.' Finally, I also varied the politics of the AI respondent, giving them values ranging from 'socialist' to 'libertarian.'

Figure 2 reports the results. In each pane, the x-axis has the four moral judgments (e.g., Unfair, Very Unfair, etc.). The y-axis is the count of respondents choosing that option. Results are presented as stacked bar charts, with the color corresponding to the framing.

In terms of straight replication, the original example was a price increase to $ 20, with 82% finding it some version of 'unacceptable.' There are not many details about the sample used in the original paper, but assuming it is nationally representative, how does this compare to the LLM experiment? In the LLM experiment, only moderates and libertarians found this price increase acceptable. About 37% of Americans described themselves as 'moderate' in 2021, so the LLM estimate would be an underestimate. 6 However, inflation has probably also taken some of the sting away from a $ 20 snow shovel (note that the $ 40 shovel was deemed unfair by 100% of LLM respondents), so the modern-day fraction being a bit lower is perhaps unsurprising. 7

The columns in the figure correspond to the different prices for the new shovel. The rows correspond to the political commitment of the AI respondent. I ordered them in descending order from left-wing to right-wing-though this admittedly simplifies the conservative/libertarian distinction.

From left to right, we can see that smaller price increases are generally viewed as more permissible than large ones: no AI thinks even a $ 40 price is acceptable. And going from $ 40 to $ 100 is enough for even the liberals to decide it is 'Very Unfair' and not just 'Unfair.' From top to bottom, we can see that AIs with more right-wing political views generally find price increases more morally permissible. Moderates and libertarian AIs both find the $ 16 and $ 20 increases 'Acceptable.' Interestingly, AI conservatives were somewhat out of step with their libertarian and moderate incarnations, viewing all prices as unfair. It is unclear if this is driven by the less political meaning of the word conservative or if it would have some empirical counterpart.

5 https://john-joseph-horton.com/market-clearing-without-consternation-the-case-of-ubers-surge-pricing/

6 https://news.gallup.com/poll/388988/political-ideology-steady-conservatives-moderates-tie.aspx

7 The top listed snow shovel on Amazon as of December 26th, 2022, the 'Snow Joe Shovelution SJ-SHLV20 20-in Strain-Reducing Snow Shovel w/ Spring Assisted Handle, Blue' at 37 . 61.

Figure 2: Kahneman et al. (1986) price gouging snow shovel question, with endowed political views

<!-- image -->

Notes: This shows the faction of AI subjects choosing each more opinion, by scenario.

Framing only mattered in one case-by using the word 'raise,' the socialists were moved from 'Unfair' to 'Very Unfair' for the $ 20 increase. All other respondents just thought this was 'Unfair.'

Stepping back, it is easy to see how someone exploring this question for research purposes might use these homo silicus findings to motivate more research. For example, probing the conservative versus libertarian distinction-or trying out various framing and justifications for the price increase. Doing this would be trivially easy and would have essentially zero financial cost.
