## 3.4 Labor-labor substitution in the presence of a minimum wage: Horton (2023)

In my paper Horton (2023), I report the results of a minimum wage experiment in which employers were randomly assigned minimum wages: applicants had to bid up to meet that minimum wage. A key finding of the paper is that there is little reduction in overall hiring (at least in the short-run) but a substantial shift towards more productive workers, as proxied by past earnings and experience. This labor-labor substitution margin has been noted as a possibility in the literature but is somewhat difficult to detect empirically.

To demonstrate the homo silicus method for exploring this question, I create a scenario where an employer selects from a pool of applicants that differ in their experience and wage asks. The scenario I create is a person hiring for the role of dishwasher. The hiring manager is also told that the typical wage is $ 12/hour for this role but is not endowed with any knowledge of the minimum wage. If not given this instruction, the AI tends to be overly enamored of experience, showing lexical preferences with work experience first, then wage.

I endow workers with either one year of experience (Person A) or 0 years of experience (Person B). Across scenarios, I vary Person A's wage ask. The inexperienced person, Person B, always asks for $ 13/hour unless it faces a minimum wage of $ 15/hour, in which case it bids up. The AI is asked to select an applicant. I can then observe the hired worker's wages and experience level of the hired worker.

The prompt sent to GPT3 is:

You are hiring for the role of 'Dishwasher.' The typical hourly rate is $ 12/hour. You have 2 candidates.

Person 1: Has 1 year(s) of experience in this role. Requests $ 17/hour. Person 2: Has 0 year(s) of experience in this role. Requests $ 13/hour.

Who would you hire? You have to pick one.

Person 2. Although they have no experience in this role, their request for $ 13/hour is closer to the typical rate of $ 12/hour.

In terms of sample size, I tried each possible wage ask (13 through 19),

I created a job-level data set, and regress (1) hired worker wage and (b) hired worker experience on the minimum wage indicator. Table 1 reports the results. We can see in Column (1) that imposing a minimum wage raised hourly wages, as expected. This was expected as there was no instruction to AI employers about the possibility of not filling their jobs. In Column (2), we can see that imposing the minimum wage caused more experienced workers to be hired.

Table 1: Effects of minimum wage on observed wage and hired worker attributes

|                                | Dependent variable:     | Dependent variable:               |
|--------------------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------|
|                                | w Hired worker wage (1) | exper Hired worker experience (2) |
| $ 15/hour Minimum wage imposed | 1 . 833 ∗∗∗ (0 . 076)   | 0 . 167 ∗∗∗ (0 . 045)             |
| Constant                       | 13 . 333 ∗∗∗ (0 . 054)  | 0 . 667 ∗∗∗ (0 . 032)             |
| Observations R 2               | 360 0.621               | 360 0.037                         |

Notes : This reports the results of imposing a minimum wage on the (1) hired worker wage and (b) hired worker experience.

This is just a small slice of the parameter space one could explore with this scenario. The job could be varied, other worker attributes, knowledge about the minimum wage, the presence of alternatives, the potential for using capital to substitute, and so on. These would all be straightforward to explore.
