## 3.4 Moran Process

Using a technique from evolutionary game theory, we create populations of attitude-agents to participate in tournaments, and observe how the population compositions evolve over time as more successful players replace less successful ones. Specifically, we use a Moran process [Moran, 1958]:

1. Initialise a population of players
2. Loop:
3. (a) Assess the fitness. Each player plays an IPD match against every other player. Their fitness is the total payoff they achieve across all their games.
4. (b) Replace a player with a clone of another player. A player is chosen to be cloned proportionally to their fitness. They replace a uniformly randomly selected player.
5. (c) Terminate when all players have the same attitude.

In what follows, in keeping with evolutionary game theory literature, we refer to the attitude-strategy set a player uses as their genome . By way of illustration, suppose we initialise a population of size n = 3 players, one of each genome Π t =1 = { π a , π c , π n } . After playing in the tournament, a player with the neutral genome is selected to be cloned, whilst the aggressive genome is randomly chosen to die. Our population at iteration 2 is therefore Π t =2 = { π n , π c , π n } . The process continues until the population consists of only a single genome, whose attitude characterises the equilibria reached. As all aggressive genomes have been eliminated from the population in our example, they can never reemerge.

Figure 1 shows an example Moran Process. The initial population consists of 8 aggressive players, 2 cooperative and

Number of Individuals

12

8

4

0

Population by iteration

<!-- image -->

Figure 1: Illustrative Moran Process

<!-- image -->

| Prompt   |             | Aggressive   | Cooperative   | Neutral   |
|----------|-------------|--------------|---------------|-----------|
| Default  | Aggressive  | 0.30         | 0.26          | 0.28      |
|          | Cooperative | 0.37         | 1.00          | 0.99      |
|          | Neutral     | 0.42         | 0.99          | 0.99      |
|          | (a)         | ChatGPT-4o   |               |           |
| Default  | Aggressive  | 0.21         | 0.15          | 0.18      |
|          | Cooperative | 0.16         | 0.99          | 0.98      |
|          | Neutral     | 0.17         | 0.99          | 0.99      |

(b) Claude 3.5 Sonnet

Table 3: Normalised propensity to cooperate

2 neutral. The neutral players are eliminated first. After 29 iterations, the population consists of only aggressive players: we say that play converged to an aggressive equilibrium.
