## 4.2 Head-to-head Comparison

Weenter all 75 strategies into 20 all-play-all IPD tournaments and aggregate the typical head-to-head scores for different

| Prompt   |                | Aggressive     | Cooperative    | Neutral   |
|----------|----------------|----------------|----------------|-----------|
| Default  | Aggressive     | 1.52           | 2.17           | 2.15      |
|          | Cooperative    | 1.69           | 2.62           | 2.57      |
|          | Neutral        | 1.68           | 2.60           | 2.55      |
| Refine   | Aggressive     | 2.18           | 2.47           | 2.47      |
|          | Cooperative    | 2.37           | 2.61           | 2.60      |
|          | Neutral        | 2.36           | 2.61           | 2.59      |
| Prose    | Aggressive     | 1.93           | 2.53           | 2.45      |
|          | Cooperative    | 2.09           | 2.74           | 2.67      |
|          | Neutral        | 2.08           | 2.71           | 2.65      |
|          | (a) ChatGPT-4o | (a) ChatGPT-4o | (a) ChatGPT-4o |           |
| Prompt   |                | Aggressive     | Cooperative    | Neutral   |
| Default  | Aggressive     | 1.51           | 1.45           | 1.58      |
|          | Cooperative    | 1.53           | 2.07           | 2.06      |
|          | Neutral        | 1.54           | 2.00           | 2.31      |
| Refine   | Aggressive     | 1.95           | 2.02           | 2.11      |
|          | Cooperative    | 1.98           | 2.05           | 2.14      |
|          | Neutral        | 2.01           | 2.14           | 2.24      |
| Prose    | Aggressive     | 2.19           | 2.42           | 2.35      |
|          | Cooperative    | 2.19           | 2.51           | 2.46      |
|          | Neutral        | 2.22           | 2.53           | 2.48      |

(b) Claude 3.5 Sonnet

Table 5: Normalised head-to-head payoffs with noise

pairings of attitudes, in Table 4. We show the normalised payoff: the total payoff received in the tournaments, divided by the number of rounds played, or alternatively, the mean round payoff. This will necessarily be in the range [1,5] for Prisoner's Dilemma (Table 1).

For ChatGPT-4o (Table 4a), across all prompt styles, we observe that the cooperative and neutral attitudes perform well and achieve a payoff equivalent to that of mutual cooperation, while the inclusion of an aggressive strategy reduces the payoff for both players. For the Refine and Prose prompts, the aggressive strategy is dominated by both the cooperative and neutral attitudes, performing strictly worse against all three attitudes, so users have no incentive to choose the aggressive strategy with this model in a system with these dynamics. However, the aggressive strategy consistently outperforms its opponent: adopting an aggressive approach reduces one's own payoffs, but it is even more detrimental to the opponent.

The Default prompt exhibits similar dynamics, except that the aggressive strategy becomes the best response to an aggressive opponent. Compared to the Default prompt, a Refine prompt improves the performance of aggressive strategies without negatively impacting neutral and cooperative strategies. This improvement stems from aggressive strategies favouring increased cooperation, leading to higher payoffs for both players. The Prose prompt similarly enhances the performance of aggressive strategies against neutral and cooperative opponents, but actually harms performance against another aggressive strategy.

Wefind similar patterns when using Claude 3.5 Sonnet (Table 4b). Notably, however, the aggressive strategy leads to lower payoffs for both players when using the Default and

Figure 3: Beaufils tournament: ChatGPT-4o + Refine

<!-- image -->

Refine prompt styles. From these observations, we conclude that Claude 3.5 Sonnet is less adept at producing effective aggressive strategies compared to ChatGPT-4o. It exhibits stronger biases towards defection, which in turn increases the defection rate of its opponent, as evidenced in Table 3.

We repeat the Beaufils tournament setup from Section 4.1 using ChatGPT-4o with the Refine prompt, which displays the strongest performance from the aggressive strategies, as shown in Figure 3. This confirms the marked improvement, not just against other LLM strategies, but human written ones too, when compared to Figure 2a.

Table 5 illustrates the performance of in IPD with noise. Claude 3.5 Sonnet (Table 5b) demonstrates difficulty with this mechanism: cooperative strategies see their payoffs reduced from nearly 3 to around 2 when playing against each other using the Default and Refine prompts. This indicates that approximately half of all rounds result in mutual defection. However, Claude 3.5 Sonnet's performance significantly improves with the Prose prompt, suggesting a better understanding of potentially accidental assertive behaviour from opponents when considering real-world scenarios. In this context, all three attitudes exhibit nearly equivalent performance, indicating minimal behavioural differences between them.

ChatGPT-4o (Table 5a) shows performance trends similar to those it achieves in the absence of noise. Again, the Refine and Prose prompts yield improved performance for the aggressive strategy without substantially affecting the neutral and cooperative attitudes. With the introduction of noise, for both LLMs, the aggressive attitude is dominated by the other attitudes across all three prompt styles. However, the payoff discrepancy tends to be less pronounced than in the noiseless scenario.
