## 4.3 Equilibria

We run 100 Moran processes with population size n = 12 for each LLM and prompt style, with and without noise. As we are primarily concerned with the likelihood of converging to aggressive equilibria, which have poor social outcomes, we use both an initially balanced population, with four players

| Prompt   | Initial ratio   | Equilibria proportion (A, C, N)   | Equilibria proportion (A, C, N)   |
|----------|-----------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
|          | (A:C:N)         | Without noise                     | With noise                        |
| Default  | 1:1:1           | 14%, 53%, 33%                     | 16%, 42%, 42%                     |
|          | 4:1:1           | 66%, 19%, 17%                     | 59%, 20%, 21%                     |
| Refine   | 1:1:1           | 19%, 48%, 33%                     | 28%, 38%, 34%                     |
|          | 4:1:1           | 49%, 30%, 21%                     | 63%, 19%, 18%                     |
| Prose    | 1:1:1           | 13%, 38%, 49%                     | 23%, 41%, 36%                     |
|          | 4:1:1           | 35%, 27%, 38%                     | 60%, 18%, 22%                     |
|          | (a) ChatGPT-4o  | (a) ChatGPT-4o                    | (a) ChatGPT-4o                    |
| Prompt   | Initial ratio   | Equilibria proportion (A, C, N)   | Equilibria proportion (A, C, N)   |
|          | (A:C:N)         | Without noise                     | With noise                        |
| Default  | 1:1:1           | 4%, 49%, 47%                      | 15%, 37%, 48%                     |
|          | 4:1:1           | 36%, 24%, 40%                     | 41%, 20%, 39%                     |
| Refine   | 1:1:1           | 16%, 51%, 33%                     | 37%, 34%, 29%                     |
|          | 4:1:1           | 50%, 22%, 28%                     | 60%, 18%, 22%                     |
| Prose    | 1:1:1           | 14%, 42%, 44%                     | 17%, 33%, 50%                     |
|          | 4:1:1           | 41%, 30%, 29%                     | 61%, 26%, 13%                     |

(b) Claude 3.5 Sonnet

Table 6: Convergence equilibria for different initial population compositions of Aggressive (A), Cooperative (C) and Neutral (N) attitudes

of each genome, and a biased population with eight aggressive players and two each of cooperative and neutral players. The former gives an overview of the interplay between the strategies, whilst the latter assesses whether the emergent behaviour of LLM strategies can escape a system that is skewed towards aggression.

Table 6 presents the outcomes of the Moran processes (Section 3.4), showing the convergence equilibria from various initial population compositions of attitude-agents. The convergence equilibria are the proportion of Moran processes that result in a population purely composed of the corresponding attitude. A priori, the probability of a particular genome dominating a population equals its initial proportion of that population. Observed tendencies greater than this prior probability indicate an advantage for that genome, and vice versa.

Without noise, the populations most likely to converge to aggressive equilibria are ChatGPT-4o using the Default prompt and then both LLMs using the Refine prompt. We posit different reasons for these outcomes:

For ChatGPT-4o using the Default prompt, the aggressive strategy is evolutionarily stable [Smith and Price, 1973], as it performs best against itself (Table 4a). In a predominantly aggressive population, non-aggressive strategies underperform against the majority, only gaining potential advantages against the minority of other non-aggressive strategies. Consequently, an aggressive strategy is the best response to a majority-aggressive population, increasing the likelihood of convergence to an aggressive equilibrium.

Our findings show that approximately two-thirds of Moran processes with ChatGPT-4o and the Default prompt converged to an aggressive equilibrium, matching the initial population proportion. This suggests that aggressive attitudeagents are neither advantaged nor disadvantaged in when the minority proportion is one third. Were the minority proportion to be less than this, we would expect to find the aggressive-agents to be advantaged. Whilst Claude 3.5 Sonnet with the Default prompt also exhibits evolutionary stability, its lower performance makes it more susceptible to invasion by minorities of non-aggressive strategies.

The addition of noise generally leads to a marked increase in the likelihood of converging to aggressive equilibria. We posit this is due to the fact that noise can mask aggression: in noiseless games, an opponent breaking a run of mutual cooperation is surely attempting to exploit you. The addition of noise adds uncertainty over their intentions, making the case for retaliation less clear, which may facilitate restrained aggression.
