## 2 Background and Related Work

JSON Schema is a meta-language that describes the structure of JSON data. It is capable of expressing a wide variety of constraints, such as the types of JSON object properties, the length of JSON arrays or the pattern that a JSON string must match. The syntax and capabilities of JSON Schema are defined in the JSON Schema specification [Wright et al., 2022], which defines a large number of keywords , each of which may be used or combined with other keywords within a schema to enforce constraints like the ones mentioned. JSON Schema is widely used in the software ecosystem, and previous work has been done to collect extensive examples of JSON Schemas with a focus both on real-world use as well as on overall correctness.

Baazizi et al. [2021] collected over 6,000 JSON schemas from publicly available GitHub repositories. Attouche et al. [2022] used it alongside additional collected JSON schemas in order to evaluate a witness generation algorithm for JSON Schema. Separately, the official JSON Schema Test Suite [JSON Schema Org, 2024] is a collection of manually created test cases, maintained by the JSON Schema core team, which exercises a large portion of the functionality defined in the JSON Schema specification. It was originally written to assist implementers of JSON Schema validation tools with testing their compliance against the specification, and therefore contains a wide variety of examples for each of JSON Schema's keywords, including in edge case scenarios. Notably, Bowtie [Bowtie, 2025] leverages the test suite as a foundation for comparing and understanding different implementations of the JSON Schema specification across programming languages. Taken together, these two datasets form a large number of examples both of JSON Schema's diverse feature set as well as its use in the wild.

Constrained decoding [Deutsch et al., 2019; Shin et al., 2021; Scholak et al., 2021; Poesia et al., 2022; Wang et al.; Geng et al., 2023] refers to methods that guide the generation process of language models (LMs) by masking out tokens that do not adhere to predefined constraints at each step. Recently, highly optimized grammar-constrained decoding frameworks [Guidance AI, 2023; BeurerKellner et al., 2023; Willard &amp; Louf, 2023; Kuchnik et al., 2023; Zheng et al., 2024; Dong et al., 2024] have been developed to improve the efficiency and usability of constrained decoding.

The evaluation of constrained decoding remains an under-explored topic, with no consensus on what defines the effectiveness of constrained decoding. While some research has pursued comparisons of con-
