## 4.2.1 CARRYING MEMORY TO THE NEXT LIFE

Experimental Setup In these studies, we used GPT-4o-mini as our LLMs and transferred agents from OASIS and EconAgent tasks without clearing their memories (i.e., their stream memories contain the observations and experiences from these tasks) to the CognitiveBiases task. The experiments were conducted three times to gauge statistical significance in our findings.

Figure 3: Memory-transfer-induced Differences in the CognitiveBiases Task. For each bias, the difference is calculated as the score with carry-over memory minus that with fresh memory. Statistically significant differences are indicated with star-shaped markers (paired t -test, p &lt; 0 . 01 ).

<!-- image -->

Experimental Results Figure 3 shows that carry-over memories alter performance in the CognitiveBiases task. Notably, memories from OASIS and EconAgent lead to distinct bias shifts. Among the largest changes, in OASIS, short-term reactions and community pressure could amplify Hyperbolic Discounting and In-Group Bias . Agents learned to heavily prioritize immediate feedback (raising hyperbolic discounting) and reinforce group identities (raising in-group bias). In EconAgent, repeated interactions and asset ownership may heighten the Endowment Effect while diminishing Loss Aversion and Survivorship Bias . Because agents regularly obtain experience with actual gains and losses, they become more attached to assets they already hold (raising endowment effect) and become less sensitive to losses and overly optimistic success rates (lowering loss aversion and survivorship bias).
