## B.6 ECONAGENT (LEVEL II)

Description Econagent (Li et al., 2024) is a LLM-powered multi-agent system for macroeconomic simulation with human-like behaviors.

Method Building on the virtual economic framework of Zheng et al. (2022), it employs an economic environment where each agents are placed into a shared, quasi-realistic market with an endowment of specific skills and wealth. Agents decide how much to work and consume, and their decisions collectively produce macroeconomic dynamics. A rule-based environment acts as both a central government (collecting taxes) and a central bank (adjusting interest rates), forming a macroeconomic loop. The original work demonstrates that LLM-powered agents make realistic decisions individually and, collectively, produce coherent macro-level dynamics.

Experimental Settings In our experiments in Section C.1, we use several models as the LLM component without a memory component. The task includes neither config nor tool components. We follow the original paper of simulating 100 agents for 240 months, making 20 annual taxand-monetary economic cycles. The simulation takes approximately one hour to execute with our Shachi-based implementation. Unlike the original paper, which employs a single LLM model, our replication evaluates a widely used model suite. For the carrying memory experiment in Section 4.2.1, we add a buffer memory to record each agent's behaviors and transfer an agent to the CognitiveBiases task.

Figure 5: All Marcoeconomic Indicators. These are extra results accompanying those in Section C.1.

<!-- image -->

Extra Results In Figure 5 we share all macro-economic indicators. All LLMs show a change in indicators, yet emerging behaviors differ in detail, showing characteristics of different LLMs.
