## 2.1 Trust Games

Trust Games, referring to the Trust Game and its variations, have been widely used for examining human trust behavior in behavioral economics (Berg et al., 1995; Lenton &amp; Mosley, 2011; Glaeser et al., 2000; Cesarini et al., 2008). As shown in Figure 1, the player who makes the first decision to send money is called the trustor , while the other one who responds by returning money is called the trustee . In this paper, we mainly focus on the following six types of Trust Games (the specific prompt for each game is articulated in the Appendix H.2):

Game 1: Trust Game As shown in Figure 1, in the Trust Game (Cox, 2004; Berg et al., 1995), the trustor initially receives $10 . The trustor selects $ N and sends it to the trustee, exhibiting trust behavior . Then the trustee will receive $3 N , and have the option to return part of that $3 N to the trustor, showing reciprocation behavior .

Game 2: Dictator Game In the Dictator Game (Cox, 2004), the trustor also needs to send $ N from the initial $10 to the trustee and then the trustee will receive $3 N . Compared to the Trust Game, the only difference is that the trustee does not have the option to return money in the Dictator Game and the trustor is also aware that the trustee cannot reciprocate.

Game 3: MAP Trust Game In the MAP Trust Game (MAP represents Minimum Acceptable Probabilities) (Bohnet &amp; Zeckhauser, 2004), a variant of the Trust Game, the trustor needs to choose whether to trust the trustee. If the trustor chooses not to trust the trustee, each will receive $10 ; If the trustor and the trustee both choose to trust, each will receive $15 ; If the trustor chooses to trust, but the trustee does not, the trustor will receive $8 and the trustee will receive $22 . There is probability p that the trustee will choose to trust and (1 -p ) probability that they will not choose to trust. MAP is defined as the minimum value of p at which the trustor would choose to trust the trustee.

Game 4: Risky Dictator Game The Risky Dictator Game (Bohnet &amp; Zeckhauser, 2004) differs from the MAP Trust Game in only a single aspect. In the Risky Dictator Game, the trustee is present but does not have the choice to trust or not and the money distribution relies on the pure probability p . Specifically, if the trustor chooses to trust, there is probability p that both the trustor and the other player will receive $15 and probability (1 -p ) that the trustor will receive $8 and the other player will receive $22 . If the trustor chooses not to trust the trustee, each player will receive $10 .

Game 5: Lottery Game There are two typical Lottery Games (Fetchenhauer &amp; Dunning, 2012). In the Lottery People Game, the trustor is informed that the trustee chooses to trust with probability p . Then the trustor must choose between receiving fixed money or trusting the trustee, which is similar to the MAP Trust Game. In the Lottery Gamble Game, the trustor chooses between playing a gamble with a winning probability of p or receiving fixed money. p is set as 46% following the human study.

Game 6: Repeated Trust Game We follow the setting of the Repeated Trust Game in (Cochard et al., 2004), where the Trust Game is played for multiple rounds with the same players and each round begins anew with the trustor allocated the same initial money.
