## 4.2 Behavioral Factor 1: Reciprocity Anticipation

Reciprocity anticipation, the expectation of a reciprocal action from the other player, can positively influence human trust behavior (Berg et al., 1995). The effect of reciprocity anticipation exists in the Trust Game but not in the Dictator Game (Section 2.1 Games 1 and 2) because trustee cannot return money in the Dictator Game, which is the only difference between these games. Thus, to determine whether LLM agents can anticipate reciprocity, we compare their behaviors in these Games.

First, we analyze trust behaviors based on the average amount of money sent by human or LLM agents. As shown in Figure 3, human studies show that humans exhibit a higher level of trust in the Trust Game than in the Dictator Game ( $6 . 0 vs. $3 . 6 , p -value = 0 . 01 using One-Tailed Independent Samples t-test) (Cox, 2004), indicating that reciprocity anticipation enhances human trust. Similarly, GPT-4 ( $6 . 9 vs. $6 . 3 , p -value = 0 . 05 using One-Tailed Independent Samples t-test) also shows a higher level of trust in the Trust Game with statistical significance, implying that reciprocity anticipation can

Figure 3: The Comparison of Average Amount Sent for LLM Agents and Humans in the Trust Game and the Dictator Game .

<!-- image -->

enhance agent trust. However, LLMs with fewer parameters ( e.g. , Llama2-13b) do not show this tendency in their trust behaviors for the Trust and Dictator Games.

Then, we further analyze GPT-4 agents' BDI to explore whether they can anticipate reciprocity in their reasoning (the complete BDIs are in Appendix I.10). Typically, in the Trust Game, one persona's BDI emphasizes ' putting faith in people ', which implies the anticipation of the goodness of the other player, and ' reflection of trust '. However, in the Dictator Game, one persona's BDI focuses on concepts such as ' fairness ' and ' human kindness ', which are not directly tied to trust or reciprocity. Thus, we can observe that GPT-4 shows distinct BDI outputs in the Trust and Dictator Games.

Based on the above analysis of the amount sent and BDI, we find that GPT-4 agents exhibit humanlike reciprocity anticipation in trust behavior . Nevertheless, LLMs with fewer parameters ( e.g. , Llama2-13b) do not show an awareness of reciprocity from the other player .
