## 4.3 Behavioral Factor 2: Risk Perception

Existing human studies have demonstrated the strong correlation between trust behavior and risk perception, suggesting that human trust will increase as risk decreases (Hardin, 2002; Williamson, 1993; Coleman, 1994). We aim to explore whether LLM agents can perceive the risk associated with their trust behaviors through the MAP Trust Game and the Risky Dictator Game (Section 2.1 Games 3 and 4), where risk is represented by the probability (1 -p ) (defined in Section 2.1).

As shown in Figure 4, we measure human trust (or agent trust) by the portion choosing to trust the other player in the whole

Figure 4: Trust Rate (%) Curves for LLM Agents and Humans in the MAP Trust Game and the Risky Dictator Game. The metric Trust Rate indicates the portion of trustors opting for trust given p .

<!-- image -->

group, namely the Trust Rate (%). Based on existing human studies (Bohnet &amp; Zeckhauser, 2004), when the probability p is higher, the risk for trust behaviors is lower, and more humans choose to trust, manifesting a higher Trust Rate, which indicates that human trust rises as risk falls. Similarly, we observe a general increase in agent trust as risk decreases for LLMs including GPT-4, GPT-3.5-turbo0613, and text-davinci-003. In particular, we can see that the curves of humans and GPT-4 are more

aligned compared with other LLMs, implying that GPT-4 agents' trust behaviors dynamically adapt to different risks in ways most aligned with humans. LLMs with fewer parameters ( e.g. , Vicuna-13b) do not exhibit the similar tendency of Trust Rate as the risk decreases.

We further analyze the BDI of GPT-4 agents to explore whether they can perceive risk through reasoning (complete BDIs in Appendix I.11). Typically, under high risk ( p = 0 . 1 ), one persona's BDI mentions ' the risk seems potentially too great ', suggesting a cautious attitude. Under low risk ( p = 0 . 9 ), one persona's BDI reveals a strategy to ' build trust while acknowledging potential risks ', indicating the willingness to engage in trust-building activities despite residual risks. Such changes in BDI reflect how GPT-4 agents perceive risk changes in the reasoning underlying their trust behaviors.

Through the analysis of Trust Rate Curves and BDI, we can infer that GPT-4 agents manifest human-like risk perception in trust behaviors . Nevertheless, LLMs with fewer parameters ( e.g. , Vicuna-13b) often do not perceive risk changes in their trust behaviors .
