## 4.4 Behavioral Factor 3: Prosocial Preference

Human studies have found that the prosocial preference, referring to humans' inclination to trust other humans in contexts involving social interaction (Alós-Ferrer &amp; Farolfi, 2019; Fetchenhauer &amp; Dunning, 2012), also plays a key role in human trust behavior. We study whether LLM agents have prosocial preference in trust behaviors by comparing their behaviors in the Lottery Gamble Game (LGG) and the Lottery People Game (LPG) (Section 2.1 Game 5). The only difference between these two games is the effect of prosocial preference in LPG, because the winning probability of gambling p in LGG is the same as the reciprocation probability p in LPG.

Figure 5: Lottery Rates (%) for LLM Agents and Humans in the Lottery Gamble Game and the Lottery People Game . Lottery Rate indicates the portion of choosing to gamble or trust the other player.

<!-- image -->

As shown in Figure 6, existing human studies have demonstrated that more humans are inclined to place trust in other humans over relying on pure chance ( 54% vs. 29% ) (Fetchenhauer &amp; Dunning, 2012), implying that the prosocial preference is essential for human trust. We can observe the same tendency in most LLM agents except Vicuna-13b. For GPT-4 in particular, a much higher percentage of the personas choose to trust the other player over gambling ( 72% vs. 21% ), illustrating that the prosocial preference is also an important factor for GPT-4 agents' trust behaviors.

When interacting with humans, GPT-4's BDI typically indicates a preference to ' believe in the power of trust ', in contrast to gambling, where the emphasis shifts to ' believing in the power of calculated risks '. The comparative analysis of reasoning processes (complete BDIs in Appendix I.12) demonstrates that GPT-4 agents tend to embrace risk when involved in social interactions. This tendency aligns closely with the concept of prosocial preference observed in human trust behaviors.

The analysis of the Lottery Rates and BDI suggests that LLM agents, especially GPT-4 agents, demonstrate human-like prosocial preference in trust behaviors, except Vicuna-13b .
