## 3.1.2 THEORETICAL AND EMPIRICAL BENCHMARKS

The risk-neutral equilibrium strategy in both of these auction formats is well understood.

In the FPSB auction, the risk-neutral Bayes-Nash equilibrium takes the form: β i ( v i ) = n -1 n v i . In the case of FPSB auctions, experimental evidence consistently finds bids above the risk-neutral BNE prediction - this is commonly identified as evidence of bidder risk-aversion. In an FPSB auction, bidding higher increases the probability of winning but decreases the potential profit if one does win. Risk-averse bidders may be willing to accept lower potential profits in exchange for a higher chance of winning, leading to bids above the risk-neutral BNE.

In the SPSB auction, the equilibrium holds in dominant strategies: β i ( v i ) = v i . Similarly, experimental data for SPSB auctions also reveals evidence of overbidding. Kagel et al. (1987) and Kagel and Levin (1993) famously provide of evidence this behavior, in particular highlighting that a significant proportion of participants (typically around 60-70%) in SPSB auctions submitted bids above their true values. However, given the SPSB has an equilibrium in dominant strategies the literature classifies this 'mis-play' as evidence of alternate behavioral mistakes. These findings highlight the complexity of human behavior in auction settings. Several explanations have been proposed, including misconceptions about the second-price rule (Kagel et al., 1987) and strategic uncertainty or beliefs about other bidders' irrationality (Crawford and Iriberri, 2007).
