## 3.1.3 SIMULATION EVIDENCE

For each of the IPV auction formats, we perform 5 experiments with 15 rounds and 3 LLM bidders competing over a prize. 3 First, we see that the sealed-bid formats demonstrate evidence of monotone bidding, which is one of the most stable hallmark of experimental lab results on auctions.

For the FPSB, the Loess-smoothed data curve matches the BNE prediction. However, this curve has high variance, with a substantial mass of bidders bidding between their value and the BNE prediction - this mass corresponds to the classic evidence of risk-aversion (Cox et al., 1988).

As with human bidders, LLM bidding in the SPSB auction exhibits numerous departures from equilibrium play. In our experiments, 37 . 78% of bids match bidders' values, closely aligning with the 27% reported by Kagel and Levin (1993). 4

However, the nature of these deviations differs strikingly. In a SPSB auction with 5 players, Kagel and Levin (1993) find the distribution of bids to be right-skewed, with most of the bidding mass (67%) on over-bidding one's value. In contrast, we find the distribution of bids to be primarily left-skewed, with most of the bidding mass (60%) on under-bidding one's value. The contrast highlights that despite both under-bidding and over-bidding being violations of strategy-proofness, they represent two distinct types of behavioral errors empirically - an insight that has not been well rationalized by the auctions literature yet. The prevalence of underbidding among LLM bidders further suggests loss-aversion to a degree not observed in human bidders, and suggests an interesting avenue for future research characterizing LLMs as economic actors: namely, that LLMs may naturally ex-

3 While these specifications are designed to meet the 'classic' auction formats of the literature, we also report the results of several variants in Appendix E. In particular, we run one-shot auction simulations (as opposed to multi-round) with n = 4 , 5 , and 10 bidders, auctions with prompts using various currencies, and auctions with non-English prompts using various currencies.

4 Kagel and Levin (1993) define value-bidding as bidding within $0.05 of one's value (with $0.01 bid increments), while we define value-bidding as bidding within $1 of one's value (with $1 bid increments).

LLM agent's

80

40

20-

Bids

- Actual Value

- - Bayes-Nash Equilibrium Strategy: *-

Smoothed Data

216

217

218

219

220

221

222

223

224

225

226

227

228

229

230

231

232

233

234

235

236

237

238

239

240

241

242

243

244

245

246

247

248

249

250

251

252

253

254

255

256

257

258

259

260

261

262

263

264

265

266

267

268

269

20

First-Price Auction

60

60

LLM agent's

40

Figure 1: Comparison of FPSB(Left) and SPSB(Right) under IPV setting. LLM bids are represented by blue circles. The black dotted line represents the 45 ◦ line (the dominant strategy for SPSB auctions), the green dashed line represents the Bayes-Nash Equilibrium on the FPSB plot, and the solid red line represents the LOESS-smoothed bidding curve for both plots. We plot LOESS curves to impose no parametric assumptions (e.g., monotonicity) on bidding behavior.

<!-- image -->

hibit more loss-aversion than human actors. Taken as a whole, we see these mistakes in the SPSB as additional motivation for exploring behavioral phenomena in LLMs under economic mechanisms.
