## 2.2 Replicating Bounded Scenarios with Human Subjects using LLM Simulations

Prior research in psychology, economics, and artificial intelligence has compared results from LLM simulations to experimental data from studies with human subjects, finding that outcomes in LLM simulations generally mirror those from the real world. Using a single LLM, past work has been able to replicate results from economic and psychology experiments with humans, including the Ultimatum Game, Garden Path Sentences, Milgram Shock Experiment, and Wisdom of Crowds [2]. Single LLMs have also been able to replicate results from an archive of seventy social science experiments - both published and unpublished. In published studies, LLM simulation results had correlation coefficient of r = 0.85 with results from lab experiments with humans. In unpublished studies which could not have appeared in the LLM's training data, the correlation was also strikingly high (r = 0.90) [15]. However, LLMs have been found to potentially miss nuances in human behavior in psychology experiments, potentially overestimating and giving false positives [6]. But overall, past work suggests that single LLMs do have a general sense of human behavior in tightly bounded experimental situations.

Prior research has also used multi-agent LLM systems to replicate human behavior in economic and psychological settings. Prior work has used multi-agent LLM systems to simulate economic games like the Dictator Game, as well as agents' immediate responses to price increases or budget allocations, finding that it is possible to change LLM-agent behavior by giving them different endowments, information, and preferences [16]. Frameworks have also been presented to simulate scenarios such as negotiations, bail hearings, job interviews, and auctions, finding that LLM-agents are able to predict the signs of effects, but not the magnitude [21]. However, these studies often lack robust comparisons to human behavior in similar real-world situations. Multi-agent systems have also shown the ability to replicate human strategic behavior in the ultimatum game more accurately than single LLMs, as assessed by comparing simulation results to human experimental data [31]. However, the ultimatum game is a single economic experiment that has been extensively studied and thus likely appears often in the training data of LLMs, leaving room for further exploration.

Past research has demonstrated that LLMs, and multi-agent LLM systems in particular, show promise in replicating human behavior in lab experiments where behavior is bounded. However, policymakers require simulations of unbounded scenarios - where people have nearly unlimited choices on ways to think, act, and behave. Our work begins by confirming that multi-agent LLM systems could replicate prosocial behavior in lab experiments, but then extends it into select real-world situations where agents had a more unbounded action space.
