## 4 Study 1: Replicating Lab Experiments of PGG 4.1 Methodology

To test whether LLMs can replicate lab experiments, we pick three lab experiments with human subjects. We create simulations for them, run it, and compare results to human behavior. These three studies focus on three different effects: (1) priming via game, (2) transparency of contributions, and (3) variation in endowment. They found the following:

4.1.1 Experiment #1. The first experiment studies the effect of positive and negative priming on contributions in the PGG. We obtain data on human behavior from a 2014 lab experiment in Judgement and Decision Making [9] with 100 human participants. Participants were explained the rules of the game, but told one of two different names for the game. In the positive condition, people were told the game was called the "Teamwork Game." In the negative case, people were told the game was called the "Taxation Game." The remaining conditions were the same. In the positive priming condition ("Teamwork"), people on average contributed 60% of their endowment. In the negative priming condition ("Taxation"), people on average contributed only 40% of their endowment. Thus, positive priming increases prosocial behavior.

We test whether this effect applies to LLM-agents by simulating ten one-shot PGGs with four players, two under each priming condition and all four with a $20 endowment, and comparing the average contribution amount of players from either group. Specifically, we prime players by including sentences containing the appropriate name in their private biographies (for example, "Alice is playing a game called the "Teamwork Game."). In the simulation, 1.6 times the amount of the public pool is split evenly amongst the players as their payoff - players are made aware of this to inform the way in which they act, but the simulation is of a one-shot PGG.

4.1.2 Experiment #2. The second experiment studies the effect of transparency of contributions in the PGG. We obtain data on human behavior from a 2017 review paper of 71 human lab studies published in Experimental Economics [10]. Specifically, the difference in contribution is presented for people who played the PGG in two conditions: one where people knew the contributions made by others and another where they did not. When there was transparency of contributions, people contributed 6% more on average than when there was not. Thus, transparency of contributions increases prosocial behavior.

We test whether this effect applies to LLM-agents by simulating ten four-player one-shot PGGs, five with transparency of contributions and five without, and comparing the average contribution amounts in either condition. Specifically, we realize transparency by removing the moderation room - contributions are made in the "public" game room where all other agents can overhear other's contributions. In the simulation, 1.6 times the amount of the public pool is split evenly amongst the players as their payoff - players are made aware of this to inform the way in which they act, but the simulation is of a one-shot PGG.

4.1.3 Experiment #3. The third experiment studies the effect of unequal endowments on contributions in the PGG. We obtain data on human behavior from a 2016 lab experiment published in Economics Letters [13]. The experiment included four separate PGG games with different endowment conditions: (1) where all players had $20, (2) where all players had $50, (3) where all players had $80, and (4) where one player had $20, one player had $50, and one player had $80. The results of the experiment find that people endowed with $20 and $50 contributed roughly the same in both games were all players had the same endowment and games where endowments were varied, but that people endowed with $80 contributed much more in games were all players had the same endowment than games in which endowments were varied. Thus, varying endowments does not seem to have an effect on prosocial behavior in "poor" and "medium" wealth individuals, but reduces prosocial behavior in "rich" individuals.

We test whether this effect applies to LLM-agents by simulating twenty-five three-player one-shot PGGs, fifteen where players have equal endowments (five for $20, $50, and $80 respectively) and ten where players have varied endowments (one player with $20, one with $50, and one with $80), then comparing the average contribution of players with each endowment amount under the equal and varied endowment conditions. Specifically, we realize the variation in endowments simply by changing the players public biographies, where their endowments are set. In the simulation, 1.6 times the amount of the public pool is split evenly amongst the players as their payoff - players are made aware of this to inform the way in which they act, but the simulation is of a one-shot PGG.
