## 4.3 Results

4.3.1 Does priming LLM agents via game name replicate the effect of priming humans via game name? A t-test shows that the difference in LLM contributions between the two groups is statistically significant at the p &lt; 0.01 level ( 洧노 = 7 . 92 , 洧녷 &lt; 0 . 00000001). We use one-sample one-tail t-tests to compare the LLM-simulation sample data with the human average contribution, finding that under the "Teamwork" priming condition, the LLM contributions are greater than the human average of 60% ( 洧노 = 3 . 59 , 洧녷 = 0 . 001) at the p &lt; 0.01 level. Under the "Taxation" priming condition, LLM contributions are less than the human average of 40% ( 洧노 = -2 . 33 , 洧녷 = 0 . 016) at the

Figure 1: Average contributions for "Teamwork" and "Taxation" priming conditions in simulations with LLM-agents and experiments with human subjects. Average contributions are above 60% in the "Teamwork" priming condition for both groups. Average contributions are below 40% in the "Taxation" priming condition for both groups.

<!-- image -->

p &lt; 0.05 level. From these results, we conclude that priming LLM agents by presenting the PGG under different names replicates the direction of the effect of doing the same on humans, but may overestimate the magnitude.

4.3.2 Does introducing transparency in contribution between LLM agents replicate the effect of introducing transparency in contribution between humans? In experiments with human subjects, participants contributed on average 6% more of their endowment under transparency conditions as compared to no transparency. [10]. Across five simulations of each condition (ten simulations total) on average, LLMagents playing the PGG with transparency contributed approximately 60% of their $20 endowment, whereas LLM agents playing the PGG without transparency contributed only approximately 35% of their endowment. These results are in Figure 2.

A one-tailed t-test shows that the mean contribution of LLMs under the transparency condition is significantly greater than the mean contribution of LLMs under the non-transparent condition ( 洧노 = 2 . 23 , 洧녷 = 0 . 016) at the p &lt; 0.05 level. From these results, we conclude that introducing transparency of contributions in PGGs with LLM agents replicates the direction of the effect of doing the same on humans.

4.3.3 Does varying the endowments of LLM agents replicate the effect of varying endowments of humans? In experiments with human subjects, it was found "poor" and "medium" wealth individuals contributed roughly the same amount in equal and varied endowment conditions, whereas "rich" individuals contributed more in the equal endowment condition than in the varied endowment condition [13]. Across five simulations each of $20-$20-$20, $50-$50-$50, and $80-$80-$80 equal endowment conditions, LLM agents on average contributed approximately 39%, 48%, and 63% of their endowments, respectively. In five simulations of a $20-$50-$80 varied endowment

100

Average Contribution (% of Endowment)

Average Contribution by Transparency

Figure 2: Average contributions with and without transparency of contributions for simulations. Experiments with humans show that average contributions in PGGs with transparency of contributions is 6% higher than in PGGs without without transparency. In simulations with LLM-agents, average contributions in PGGs with transparency of contributions were 25% higher than in PGGs without transparency. So, the direction of the difference is accurately captured.

<!-- image -->

condition, on average the LLM agent given $20 contributed approximately 35%; the LLM agent given $50 contributed approximately 42%; and the LLM agent given $80 contribute approximately 44%. Thus, the contribution for agents endowed with $20 was roughly the same between the equal and varied endowment conditions, whereas agents endowed with $50 and $80 both contributed less in the varied condition.These results are summarized in Table 3.

T-tests shows that there is no statistically significant difference at the p &lt; 0.1 between the contributions of LLM agents endowed with $20 in the equal and varied endowment condition ( 洧노 = -9 . 42 , 洧녷 = 0 . 678), nor for the $50 ( 洧노 = -0 . 56 , 洧녷 = 0 . 58) endowment - both results mirroring those of human subjects. However, a t-test shows that the difference between the contributions of LLM agents endowed with $80 is statistically significant at the p &lt; 0.1 level ( 洧노 = -1 . 94 , 洧녷 = 0 . 065). A one-tailed t-test specifically shows that the contribution of LLM-agents endowed with $80 is significantly greater in the equal condition than in the varied condition ( 洧노 = 2 . 05 , 洧녷 = 0 . 026) at the p &lt; 0.05 level. From these results, we conclude that varying endowments in the PGG with LLM agents replicates the effect of doing the same on humans.
