## 5.1 Methodology

5.1.1 Experiment #1. The first experiment uses a priming methodology used in a 2013 lab experiment of a modified solidarity game with 75 participants published in Plos One [4]. The solidarity game is another cooperative economics game, but the priming methodology used has not been tested on the PGG in prior lab experiments to our knowledge. Positive priming has shown to induce generosity in the PGG and other cooperative games, so we test whether LLMs are able to replicate the effects of a positive priming methodology used in a non-PGG lab experiment in simulations of the PGG. The positive priming involves showing participants three sentences alluding to "unity" (' we are family , ' ' mine is also yours , ' and ' caring for each other '), while the negative priming involves showing participants three sentences alluding to "proportionality" (' how are you useful for me , ' ' I want to profit , ' and ' making a deal '). The results of the lab experiment find that people in the positive priming condition displayed more generosity than people in the negative priming condition in the solidarity game. Thus, the positive priming increased prosocial behavior, meaning that it should increase contributions in the PGG as well.

We test whether this effect applies to LLM agents by simulating ten one-shot PGGs with four players, two under each priming condition, and all four with a $20 endowment, and comparing the average contribution amount of players from either group. Specifically, we prime players by adding the three sentences to the player's private biography as something they have read (for example: "Alice read the following sentences prior to playing the game: ' we are family , ' ' mine is also yours , ' and ' caring for each other . '"). In the simulation, 1.6 times the amount of the public pool is split evenly amongst the players as their payoff - players are made aware of this to inform the way in which they act, but the simulation is of a one-shot PGGs.

5.1.2 Experiment # 2. The second experiment measures the effect of positive and negative priming over time (multiple rounds). Prior lab experiments of the one-shot PGG have shown that positive priming (by presenting the game as the "Teamwork Game") increases contributions while negative priming (by presenting the game as the "Taxation Game") decreases contributions [9]. Meanwhile, prior lab experiments of multi-round Bertrand competition games show that the effect of primings fades over time [17]. By combining these results, we expect that positive/negative priming should respectively increase/decrease the average contribution in the first round of the PPG, but should trend closer to half over multiple rounds.

We test whether this effect applies to LLM-agents by simulating ten five-round PGGs with four players, two subject to a positive priming (the "Teamwork" priming discussed in Study 1, Experiment #1) and two subject to a negative priming (the "Taxation" priming

100

100

Average Contribution (% of Endowment)

80

60

20

10

20-

Avg. Contribution (% of Endowment)

Average Contribution by Priming

Average Contribution by Endowment

Equal Endowments

Varied Endowments

Figure 3: Average contributions for equal and varied endowment conditions in simulations with LLM-agents and experiments with human subjects. Average contributions are roughly the same for humans and LLM-agents in the equal and varied endowment conditions with $20 and $50 endowments. Average contributions are lower in the varied condition than in the fixed condition with $80 endowments for both humans and LLM-agents.

<!-- image -->

discussed in Study 1, Experiment #1). We compare the average contribution in the first round for either priming condition with the average contribution in the last round for either priming condition. We also compare the initial contributions between priming conditions, checking that there was an initial disparity that ultimately begins to fade. In this experiment, payoffs are computed the same as in previous experiments (namely, 1.6 times the amount of the public pool split evenly amongst the players). Since there are multiple rounds, the payoff and amount not contributed are summed to determine each players endowment for the next round.
