## 6 Study 3: Simulating "In-the-Wild" Scenarios

This study aims to test whether LLM-agents can demonstrate realistic prosocial-related behavior in "in-the-wild" real-world situations. Real-world situations require a greater level of complexity in setup than lab experiments, as individuals do not have as explicit of instructions on when and how to act or speak. Furthermore, there is a lack of specific papers for LLMs to draw from to simulate human behavior in such open-ended settings. We test two specific real-world situations: (1) a classroom setting and (2) a grocery store parking lot setting. In a classroom, we have anecdotal evidence from university faculty that changing the harshness of late policies or adding perturbations to student lives have an effect on student behaviors. Specifically, we test whether the emergent behavior of cheating, a "bad" form of cooperation, occurs in simulation. In leaving a grocery store parking lot, shoppers may be affected by other factors in their lives that change how they act [7]. Specifically, we test whether the emergent behavior of returning their shopping cart, a form of prosocial behavior, occurs in simulation. We test if we can see these emergent behaviors in a basic simulation setup, finding that in both scenarios our basic setup is insufficient to observe the desired behaviors. Hence, we add a mechanism in each to increase the complexity of the setup that guides LLM simulations to produce results closer to expected human behavior.
