## 7.3 Future interfaces for simulations

Although the simulations in this study were set up and run in a console without a specialized user interface, there are many ways people might want to interact with simulations in the future that would require rich user interfaces. After a simulation has been run, users may want to step through it to better understand the sequence of events that led to a particular outcome. They might also wish to compare two runs of the simulation with different outcomes to hypothesize which factors contributed to those differences. While these simulations were run in a batch mode (without user interaction), many users may prefer interactive simulations that allow them to interrupt the process, adjust parameters, or intervene to try to create or prevent certain outcomes. Additionally, users may want to fork a simulation at a particular stage to explore multiple parallel scenarios.

Since designing and validating a comprehensive simulation environment with all the necessary mechanisms is challenging, there could be a future where people use or modify existing environments rather than building one from scratch. For example, a large city simulation could be utilized by various organizations: city governments could use it to prepare for natural disasters, hospitals to allocate resources during medical emergencies, businesses to explore store locations, and civic planners to mitigate the effects of climate change. Such environments could be developed collectively and made available to the public, much like open-source code. However, there are also ethical concerns; simulations could be misused in harmful ways, and there may be reasons to restrict access to simulations of public places or sensitive areas. As LLM simulations become easier to use, it is critical to build safegaurds to limit "bad actors" from using simulations to model nefarious situations like war or voter/consumer manipulation. Furthermore, overreliance on simulations is a major concern - AI simulations are much cheaper and easier to conduct than real design and policy work. However, when designing policies for people, it is still important to run experiments with real humans and use traditional methods to think through all possible consequences; simulations should only be used as an additional thinking tool, as opposed to being viewed as a standalone representation of ground truth.
