## Methods

To investigate how human subjects would behave when playing with LLM agents, we studied their interactions in two of the games we used: Prisoner's Dilemma and the Battle of the Sexes. We also investigated if participants could detect and behave differently when playing against different agents. Participants ( N = 195, 89 females, mean age 26.72, s.d. 4.19) were recruited through Prolific 70 , an online platform that allows researchers to access a diverse and reliable pool of participants. No statistical methods were used to predetermine sample sizes, but our sample sizes are similar to those reported in previous publications 71-73 . The participants were required to be fluent speakers of English with minimum approval rates of 0.95 and 1, and a minimal number of previous submissions of 10 that have not participated in our experiment before. All participants provided informed consent before inclusion in the study. Experiments were performed in accordance with the relevant guidelines and regulations approved by the ethics committee of the University of Tübingen (protocol no. 701/2020BO). Participants received a £3 base payment plus a bonus of up to £2 depending on performance (1 cent for each point received during the games) for their participation. The average compensation was £11.41 per hour. Participants were fully debriefed after the experiment. Data of 21 players who failed to make a round's choice between the two options within a given time frame (20 s) were excluded.

In the sections that follow, we first detail the experimental set-up for LLM-LLM interactions, which serves as a comparative baseline for our study. We then present details from the human participant study outlined above.
