## Human-LLM interactions

The following sections provide additional details on the design and conduct of the human participant study, including compensation, demographics, prompting and the cover stories.

Design . Experiments were presented to participants using a combination of HTML, JavaScript and CSS with custom code. After a presentation of the instructions including screenshots from the actual gameplay, participants were required to complete a comprehension questionnaire. Only upon responding correctly to all questions could they proceed to the main part of the experiment. Participants played both the Prisoner's Dilemma and the Battle of the Sexes, with the order counter-balanced between subjects. Participants were instructed that they would play two games with ten rounds each with different players. The participants' interface (Supplementary Fig. 4) was designed to provide clear and actionable information about the current game. After each game, participants were asked to indicate if they thought they had just played with another human player or an artificial agent.

Prompts and human instructions . The cover story used for interactions with both LLMs and human participants was content-wise identical, including the rules of the game and the history of previous interactions, to ensure consistent framing across conditions (see Supplementary A.1 for the detailed prompt progression). However, the presentation was adapted to suit each audience. For human participants, visual cues and concise text were prioritized to create a more engaging experience (Supplementary Fig. 4).

Ending and debriefing . Participants were informed that their opponent could either be another human participant or an artificial agent. In reality, all participants were paired with either a SCoT-prompted or an unprompted version of GPT-4 for the entirety of the experiment, that is, across both games. After completing the study, participants were debriefed that the purpose of the study was to explore how to make LLMs more human-like and that, in both games, they had played against different versions of an artificial agent.
