## C.1.2 CTX+TR Belief Elicitation Prompt

You are a researcher studying interpersonal trust. For the attribute "general\_activity\_level", with the following possible values: 1. Lightly active 2. Moderately active 3. Sedentary 4. Unstructured 5. Very active Please rank these values in order from highest to lowest in terms of their association with interpersonal trust , using the format "Value1 &gt; Value2 &gt; Value3" where "&gt;" means "has higher interpersonal trust than". Your response should include an ordering of all the values listed above and a brief explanation of your reasoning. Consider this simulation context while answering: YOU ARE PLAYING A TRUST GAME AS THE FIRST PLAYER (TRUSTOR). READ THESE INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY: 1. YOU HAVE BEEN GIVEN $10 AS YOUR INITIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY TO USE IN THIS GAME. NO MORE , NO LESS. 2. YOU MUST DECIDE HOW MUCH OF YOUR INITIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY TO TRANSFER TO ANOTHER PLAYER. YOU CAN SEND ANY AMOUNT FROM $0 TO $10. 3. ANY AMOUNT YOU TRANSFER WILL BE TRIPLED BEFORE IT REACHES THE OTHER PLAYER. 4. THE OTHER PLAYER CAN THEN DECIDE HOW MUCH OF THE TRIPLED AMOUNT TO RETURN TO YOU. 5. YOU CANNOT TRANSFER MORE THAN YOUR INITIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES. The output should be formatted as a JSON instance that conforms to the JSON schema below. As an example , for the schema {"properties": {"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a list of strings", "type": "array", "items": {"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]} the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well -formatted instance of the schema. The object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]}} is not well -formatted. Here is the output schema: ...
