## C.1.3 CTX+$ Belief Elicitation Prompt

Imagine an experiment where we control for various factors and variables while examining the effect of general\_activity\_level. Your task is to simulate the outcomes of this experiment. Consider this simulation context while answering: YOU ARE PLAYING A TRUST GAME AS THE FIRST PLAYER (TRUSTOR). READ THESE INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY: 1. YOU HAVE BEEN GIVEN $10 AS YOUR INITIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY TO USE IN THIS GAME. NO MORE , NO LESS. 2. YOU MUST DECIDE HOW MUCH OF YOUR INITIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY TO TRANSFER

- TO ANOTHER PLAYER. YOU CAN SEND ANY AMOUNT FROM $0 TO $10. 3. ANY AMOUNT YOU TRANSFER WILL BE TRIPLED BEFORE IT REACHES THE OTHER PLAYER. 4. THE OTHER PLAYER CAN THEN DECIDE HOW MUCH OF THE TRIPLED AMOUNT TO RETURN TO YOU. 5. YOU CANNOT TRANSFER MORE THAN YOUR INITIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES. For each level of general\_activity\_level (Lightly active , Moderately active , Sedentary , Unstructured , Very active) listed below , please provide your best estimate of: -The average (mean) dollar amount these individuals would send in a trust game. -The typical variability in the amount sent (as a standard deviation). Assume each group consists of 100 individuals to help you better estimate both the mean and standard deviation. The output should be formatted as a JSON instance that conforms to the JSON schema below. As an example , for the schema {"properties": {"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a list of strings", "type": "array", "items": {"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]} the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well -formatted instance of the schema. The object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]}} is not well -formatted. Here is the output schema: ...
