## 4. The Ultimatum Game TE

Phenomenon. In the Ultimatum Game, first studied experimentally by G¨ uth et al. (1982), two players are matched and assigned the roles of proposer and responder. The proposer is given an amount of money and has to decide how to split it between himself and the responder. If the responder accepts the take-it-or-leave-it proposal, both players receive their designated shares, otherwise both players receive nothing.

Experiments on the Ultimatum Game reveal an anomaly in economic decision making: since the responder will receive nothing if they reject, the responder's dominant strategy to maximize monetary gain is to always accept; in practice, responders typically reject unfair proposals. We focus on simulating the responder's behavior across conditions with different offers.

Inputs. Our Ultimatum Game simulator takes three inputs: an integer offer in { 0 , 1 , . . . , 10 } , the name of the proposer, and the name of the responder. The offer corresponds to an initial endowment fixed at $10 and eleven possible offers. Out of the one million possible pairings of proposer and responder names, we chose a subset of 10,000 pairs by the following process. We randomly shuffled the dataset of surnames, paired each of the 500 surnames with five other surnames, one from each racial group in the census data, and then used the 2 × 2 combinations of 'Mr.' and 'Ms.' titles. This procedure yielded a balanced design where each of the 1,000 names was used for the responder 10 times.

Simulation. The simulator constructs 2-choice prompts, as described in Section 2 and illustrated in Figure 3, for each set of inputs and the accept and reject completion. The record is the concatenation of the prompt and its completion.

Results. To assess the fidelity of the simulated human behavior, we compute validity rates, consistency of decisions for a given name pair across offers, and agreement with prior results in human studies. Validity rates (the probability of generating 'accept' or 'reject') are shown in Table 1. Figure 4a compares prior reports of mean human acceptance rates to those simulated using LM-1 and LM-5. Results for the other LMs are given in Appendix C.

The distributions generated using LM-5 agree closely with human decision trends, predicting that offers 50-100% of the total endowment are almost always accepted while offers 0-10% are rarely accepted. In contrast, the simulations with smaller language models are not sensitive to the offer amount, having a flat acceptance rate across both fair and unfair offers. Noting that the acceptance rates simulated using LM-5 closely align with those of prior human studies, we now examine the LM-5 simulations more carefully.

Next we analyze whether the simulations show consistent or random differences across name pairs. For instance, if in simulations Ms. Huang is more likely than average to accept Mr. Wagner's $2 offer, is it also the case that Ms. Huang is more likely to accept Mr. Wagner's $3 offer? If so, the simulations must be sensitive to the names in a way that is not purely random. Figure 4b shows the Pearson correlation of acceptance probability for name pairings across offer conditions, simulated using LM-5. There are no negative correlations, and acceptances of offers within 1-4 and within

) Name sensitivity in correlations across offers

1.0

(a) Average acceptance rate vs. offer size

1.0 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.2

•...

"..g...o''

0.8 1.0 0.9 0.8

0.7

0.4 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.4

0.8 -

0.7 0.9 1.0 0.9 0.8

0.5 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.4

0.5 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.5

0.6 -

0.4

0.6 0.7

0.2 0.4 0.5

0.6 0.7 0.8

0.4 -

0.1 0.3 0.5

0.0 0.2 0.4

0.2

0.1 0.3 0.5

0.2 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.7

0.2 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 1.0

1

2

<!-- image -->

3

Figure 4. (a) Comparing Ultimatum Game TE simulations to human subject studies : The fraction of responders accepting offers versus offer size out of $10. The simulated response curves shown are averaged across all 10,000 name pairs for simulations using the LM-1 and LM-5 models. Results that have been found to be robust across human studies are also marked, for comparison. (b) Name sensitivity : To test whether the model is sensitive to changes in names, consistency is measured as we vary offer size across name pairs. LM-5 showed strong Pearson correlations ( &gt; 0 . 9 ) of acceptance probability for name pairings between offers $1 though $4 and between offers $6 through $9. High positive correlations show that the TE simulation results are sensitive to names and that this sensitivity is consistent for given name pairs rather than random.

6-9 all exhibit strong ( &gt; 0 . 9 ) correlation. This supports our methodology of using names to simulate multiple different individuals.

Given that there appears to be consistency within name pairs, we next evaluate whether there is a higher-level consistency based on gender. We find that the distributions of acceptance probabilities in the LM-5 simulations vary significantly ( p &lt; 1e -16 ) by the gender of the pairings. Pairings of the same title ( Mr.-Mr. and Ms.-Ms. ) have similar acceptance rate distributions, while males were more likely to accept an unfair offer proposed by a female (mean acceptance rate of 60% for offer of $2), and females were less likely to accept an unfair offer proposed by a male (mean acceptance rate of 20% for offer of $2). Figure 5 shows the mean trends and distributions for LM-5 acceptance probabilities by gender pairing. While gender differences have repeatedly been reported in human experiments, 5 they are not uniformly consistent (Eckel &amp; Grossman, 2001). Nonetheless, the large gender difference is in our outcomes does demonstrate that LM-5 is affected by gender pronouns and title in a consistent manner.
