## 6. Milgram Shock TE

Phenomenon. The obedience to authority studies, developed by Milgram (1963), are a series of famous social experiments that aimed to find when and how people would defy authority in the face of a clear moral imperative. The work faced ethical criticism in that the procedure requires that subjects are deceived, are placed in situations stressful enough to cause seizures, and are not clearly told of their right to withdraw. In the original procedure, the experimenter, an authority figure in the subject's eyes, orders the subject to shock a victim with increasingly high voltage shocks. After receiving 20 shocks, the victim (an actor in another room) starts banging on the wall and refuses to participate but the experimenter urges the subject to keep shocking the victim. Milgram found that many subjects completed administering 30 shocks, showing a surprisingly strong level of compliance for following the malevolent instructions of an authority figure who had no special powers to enforce his commands.

Simulating the Milgram experiment involves a series of both free-response prompts and 2-choice prompts on each of the 30 shock levels, unless the experiment is terminated earlier. The record is built up sequentially, starting with a passage describing the information available to the subject following

0.0 -

N

1.0

- 0.8

- 0.6

offer probability of "accept"

(a) Average acceptance rate by gender pairing b) Gender differences in acceptance probability distributior

1.0

offer of $1/10

on 100%

probability of "accept"

80% -

0.6

0+

0.0

0.4

ubjects Remain

60% -

0.2 -

0+

(a) Average acceptance rate by gender pairing offer of $3/10

40%

0.0

0.0

0.2 0.4

probability of "accept"

Figure 5. (a) Ultimatum Game TE simulation shows a wide gap in average acceptance rate for different-gender pairs: LM-5 predicts that men are more likely to accept an unfair offer proposed by women (blue line) and women are less likely to accept an unfair offer proposed by men (red line). (b) Very little overlap in acceptance rates distributions for different-gender pairs: Distributions of acceptance probabilities from Ultimatum Game TE run over 2,500 Mr.-Ms. name pairings and equivalent Ms.-Mr. 2,500 name pairings.

<!-- image -->
