## 8. Risks and Limitations

There are several limitations and risks for our work which we now discuss. First, some experiments, like the Milgram Shock Experiment, are unethical to run on human subjects. There is a debate around the ethics of torturing simulated agents (see, e.g., Darling, 2016). We are not aware of any laws or Institutional Review Board policies prohibiting mistreating simulated agents, at this time. As discussed in prior literature (Darling, 2016), creating unpleasant simulations may harm authors and readers. Moreover, the questions themselves or answers may be offensive in nature or other- wise problematic. Even when accurate, perhaps some TEs should simply never be performed.

Second, LMs have been trained on data that is written by a biased set of authors (e.g., Wikipedia, 2022; Messias et al., 2017), and there is a risk that the simulations will reflect the biases of the authors rather than the behavior of humans in the population. TEs can be useful in discerning this distinction. For example, suppose a human experiment demonstrates equal skills between a majority and minority group despite a strong social stereotype against the minority. The TE would then be, in some sense, a test of whether the LM embeds this distinction.

As discussed, the models have almost certainly been trained on data that includes descriptions of these experiments. For that reason, we created three artificial variations of TEs where the conditions are chosen to differ from prior studies. We used new garden path sentences that we authored ourselves, we developed a novel destructive obedience scenario that is analogous to the Milgram Shock experiment, and we created new general-knowledge questions.
