## 9. Conclusion

Our new TE methodology evaluates how faithfully LMs simulate human behavior across diverse populations. TEs may contribute to the view of AIs as capable of simulating the collective intelligence of many humans, rather than anthropomorphizing or viewing AI as a single monolithic intelligence. We show that TEs can reproduce economic, psycholinguistic, and social psychology experiments. The Wisdom of Crowds TE uncovered a 'hyper-accuracy distortion' where larger and more aligned LMs simulate human subjects that give unhumanly accurate answers. This work is merely an initial exploration of the concept of TEs. In future work, it would be interesting to perform larger and more systematic simulations across additional LMs, to better understand the limitations of LMs in terms of different human behaviors.

As LMs increase in accuracy, it would be interesting to test whether or not LM-based simulations can be used to form and evaluate new hypotheses, especially in situations where it is costly to carry out experiments on humans due to considerations regarding scale, selection bias, monetary cost, legal, moral, or privacy considerations. For instance, experiments on what to say to a person who is suicidal would cost lives (Bolton et al., 2015). Future LMs, if sufficiently faithful, might be useful in designing experimental protocols that may be more effective at saving lives.

Acknowledgements. We thank Michael Kearns, Sashank Varma, Mary Gray, Elizabeth Fetterolf, Shafi Goldwasser, and the anonymous reviewers for invaluable feedback.
