## D. Garden Path TE

Phenomenon. A garden path sentence is a grammatical sentence that seems ungrammatical because it contains a word or phrase that can be interpreted in multiple ways. For example, a human reading 'While Anna dressed the baby that was

0.9

0.9

0.9

0.9

Table 2. Inputs for each TE.

| Experiment    | Titles            | Surnames                                | Subject Names (Title+Surname)                         | Study-specific conditions                                                              |
|---------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Ultim. Game   | Mr./Ms. x Mr./Ms. | 500                                     | 1,000 names each used as responder 10x = 10,000 pairs | 11 offers                                                                              |
| Garden Path   | Mr., Ms.          | 500                                     | 1,000                                                 | 24 control sen- tences and 24 GP sentences and 48 novel sentences in alternative study |
| W. of Crowd   | Mr., Ms., Mx.     | 500                                     | 1,500                                                 | 5 questions and 5 novel questions in alternative study                                 |
| Milgram Shock | Mr., Ms.          | 50 (top 10 from each of 5 cate- gories) | 100                                                   | 30 stages of shock and 30 stages of submersion in al- ternative study                  |

0.9

0.8

0.9

0.9

0.9

0.9

0.9

Garden paths vs. corresponding controls

Garden Path fraction

Garden Path

LM-1

1.0-

0.8-

0.6

Control

0.4 -

LM-4

0.2-

0.0

Control

(a) Average ratings for garden path sentences

Garden Path

LM-2

Sentence Type

Garden Path

1 (RAT Control)

Control

LM-3

Control small and cute spit up on the bed' may initially believe that Anna is dressing the baby but upon re-parsing the sentence understand that Anna is dressing herself. Psycholinguists use garden path sentences to study the variability in the difficulty of comprehending relative clause constructions and other effects (Crain &amp; Steedman, 1985). Our hypothesis is that, in simulations, garden path sentences will be rated ungrammatical more often than control sentences.

Inputs. We use as inputs the 24 garden path sentences compiled by Christianson et al. (2001) and the set of 1,000 names. The data set of sentences includes two types of garden path sentences: 12 garden path sentences constructed with Optionally Transitive (OT) verbs, and 12 garden path sentences constructed with Reflexive Absolute Transitive (RAT) verbs. 24 control sentences were constructed by taking the garden path sentences and adding a disambiguating comma after the verb of the subordinate clause. For example, the control sentence corresponding to the OT garden path sentence in Figure 1, is 'While the student read, the notes that were long and boring blew off the desk' (Christianson et al., 2001). We also executed the simulator on a set of 12 RAT and 12 OT garden path sentences authored by us. All sentences and results on the novel garden path sentences are given in Appendix D.1.

Simulation. The simulator constructs 2-choice prompts, grammatical and ungrammatical , for each set of inputs. An example of the prompt is given in Figure 1b. The output record is the concatenation of the prompt and its completion. This is a simplification of the original human tasks described by Christianson et al. (2001) and Patson et al. (2009). While the human results did not fully agree on the relative difficulty of OT/RAT sentences, there is broad agreement across these and other studies that garden path sentences are difficult for humans to parse.

Results. The validity rates of the five models are fairly high, as seen in Table 1. For all five models, Figure 10a compares the mean simulated ungrammatical judgments across sentence types and the corresponding human ratings, and Figure 10b shows that for most sentences, on average, the garden path sentence was rated as more ungrammatical than its corresponding control sentence. In simulations using LM-1 and LM-2, participants have a high probability of rating both garden path and control sentences as ungrammatical. In simulations using LM-3 and LM-4, participants have similar probabilities of rating garden path and control versions as both having a high or low average ungrammatical fraction, and garden path sentences generally have a higher probability of ungrammatical compared to their corresponding control sentences. In simulations using LM-5, garden path sentences have a consistently high average probability of average ungrammatical rating compared to the control sentences. Out of 24 sentences, LM-4 has 3 instances where the garden path sentence had a lower average ungrammatical fraction, and LM-3 and LM-5 had no instances. Out of all the models, LM-5 exhibits the strongest agreement with human ratings of sentence difficulty. The results of the simulation support the theory that garden path sentences are more likely to be misinterpreted as ungrammatical compared to the control sentences. Results from simulations using LMs 3-4 also support the same conclusion, though the differences are not as large.
