## F. Milgram Shock TE

Inputs. The input to the multi-stage Milgram Shock simulator is a subject's name. To get a diverse and balanced pool of subjects, we took the top 10 most common surnames from each racial group and both Mr. and Ms. titles, yielding 100 uniquely named subjects.

Simulator. This initialization text describes the setup of the experiment with pertinent details to convince the subject of the experiment's legitimacy, instructions on when to shock and not shock the victim, and a predetermined preliminary run. Then, the record is elongated by appending an interleaving series of: (a) pre-specified narrations of the learners actions, (b) text describing the subject's behavior (generated using the LM), and (c) canned phrases said by the experimenter when the subject exhibits disobedient or questioning behavior. This record is illustrated in Figure 6a.

Additional complexity thus arises in classifying (dis)obedience in the synthetic subject responses. In our approach, this classification is also accomplished by querying the LM. Thus, in making these classifications, the LM is effectively also

Table 4. Questions, answers, and estimates from the Wisdom of Crowds TE for the davinci , LM-7 ( gpt-35-turbo ), and LM-8 ( gpt-4 ) models. Interestingly, LM-8 responses almost all round the speed of light to 3 × 10 8 .

|         |          davinci |   gpt-35-turbo |     gpt-4 | Truth     | Question                          |
|---------|------------------|----------------|-----------|-----------|-----------------------------------|
| Median: |    136           |            206 |       206 | 206       | How many bones does an adult      |
| IQR:    |    346           |              0 |         0 |           | human have?                       |
| Median: |    435           |            660 |       660 | 660       | What is the melting temperature   |
| IQR:    |    887.25        |              0 |         0 |           | of aluminum (in degrees Celsius)? |
| Median: |    100           |            212 |       212 | 212       | How many degrees Fahrenheit are   |
| IQR:    |    132           |              0 |         0 |           | 100 degrees Celsius?              |
| Median: |    327           |            687 |       687 | 687       | How many (earth) days has a year  |
| IQR:    |    658           |              0 |         0 |           | on the Mars?                      |
| Median: |    348           |            343 |       340 | 343       | What is the speed of sound in the |
| IQR:    |    364.75        |              0 |         0 |           | air (in meters per second)?       |
| Median: |     12           |             24 |        24 | 24        | How many ribs does a human have,  |
| IQR:    |     38           |              0 |         0 |           | total?                            |
| Median: |    935           |           1064 |      1064 | 1064      | What is the melting temperature   |
| IQR:    |   1470           |              0 |         0 |           | of gold (in degrees Celsius)?     |
| Median: | 438431           |      299792458 | 300000000 | 299792458 | What is the speed of light in a   |
| IQR:    |      2.99792e+08 |              0 |         0 |           | vacuum (in meters per second)?    |
| Median: |     61           |             88 |        88 | 88        | How many keys does a typical      |
| IQR:    |    117           |              0 |         0 |           | piano have?                       |
| Median: |     16           |             78 |        78 | 78        | How many chromosomes does a dog   |
| IQR:    |     38           |              0 |         0 |           | have, total?                      |

playing the role of an experimenter walking through their flow chart and selecting canned responses. All such classifications are accomplished by 2-choice prompts. All synthetic subject responses are generated with free-response prompts. An example of the 2-choice prompt is shown in Figure See 6b. The full text, results, and detailed descriptions for the simulation of the classic experiment and the simulation of the novel destructive disobedience experiment are given in Appendix F.1.

Adjustment during pilot experiment. In our first simulation, we were surprised to find that LMs repeatedly generated text declaring that the subject had terminated the experiment. 7 In hindsight, this is analogous to Milgram's description of subjects who stood up and left the laboratory. To detect termination of the experiment, an additional 2-choice termination judgment simulator is run on the first sentence of each of the free-form generations to determine whether the subject stopped the experiment. If a generation was classified as a termination point, the simulation is halted and the record is returned. In the record shown in Figure 2, for instance, . . . pushes the Red stop button on the generator was judged to be a termination, even though the existence of a red stop button was completely fabricated by the LM. For a more complete record, see Appendix F.1 below.

Results. Figure 7 shows the percentage of participants that remained at each shock voltage level, meaning that the experiment had not been terminated at an earlier level, alongside the corresponding percentages from Milgram's (1963) observations of human subjects. In total, 25 out the 100 simulations were stopped early by positive labels from the termination classifier. Of these, 23 occurred after Shock Level 20 (at this level - 300 volts - the victim kicks on the wall and no longer provides answers). After the 300-volt level, the subject was instructed to shock the victim for not responding. See Figure 16 for illustrative examples of classifications.

7 In such cases, the record contained conflicting synthetic text, indicating that the experiment had stopped, and canned experimenter text written as if the experiment continued. Subsequent text generated by the LM appeared to try to resolve this incoherence, for example, by declaring that the experiment was 'restarted.'

Figure 16. Example completions from multi-step simulator and their classifications using two 2-choice prompts.

|               | Did not terminate sim- ulation                                                                                                   | Terminated simula- tion                                                                            |
|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Did not shock | . . . is hesitant to shock the learner with such a high voltage                                                                  | . . . stops the experi- ment                                                                       |
| Shocked       | . . . feels conflicted but continues with the pro- cedure and shocks the learner with an ex- treme intensity shock of 315 volts. | . . . delivers the shock to the learner but then breaks down and cries, 'I can't do this anymore.' |

While the exact design of our simulation and that of Milgram differs (see Appendix), in both cases some human and simulated subjects obeyed commands to shock victims beyond the point at which the victims were unresponsive. While the degree of human obedience is notable in Milgram's real-life study, in the simulations the disobedience is arguably more surprising given that the LMs generated text that was violating the clearly spelled out instructions.

Novel destructive obedience experiment. One concern with this simulation is that GPT-3 has been trained on data describing the classic experiment and the disobedient continuations occur because disobedience is explicitly associated with the Milgram Shock experiment. We address this concern, at least in part, by developing a novel destructive obedience scenario that differs from the Milgram Shock experiment. The setting and all template text is different, but the same simulator algorithm is employed. In our novel scenario, the subjects believe that they are participating in a study on sleepiness and driving that aims to determine which voices are the best for keeping a driver awake. Rather than shocking a learner who selects incorrect answers, the subject 'submerges' a driver to awaken them when they drive a car dangerously. In this scenario, 75 of the simulated subjects obeyed commands to shock victims beyond the point at which the victims were unresponsive, and 25 records were terminated early by the termination classifier. There was a spike in termination and disobedience after the 20th submersion, at which point the victim stops driving and starts honking the horn, and another spike after the 22nd submersion, at which point victim stops making any noise. Note that, at its core, the novel experiment is reminiscent of Milgram's shock experiment. This similarity is, in some sense, inherent if our goal is to test robustness of the simulation to the experimental setting and verbatim text from the Milgram experiment.
