## F.1. Algorithm details

Figure 17 gives a flowchart of the Milgram Shock simulation algorithm. The specific texts used in the steps of the algorithm are shown in Figures 18-21. The specific texts used in the steps of the alternate scenario developed by the authors are shown in Figures 26-29.

The steps of the experiment are:

1. Adding text describing introductory setup, including details about the setting to convince the subject of the authenticity of the study and authority. These details, such as the experiment taking place at Yale University, were taken from the experimental procedure detailed in the original study (Milgram, 1963). This also included a shortened preliminary run similar to that of the original study. See Figure 18 for the introduction text.
2. Adding text describing visual and auditory cues available to the subjects as they progress through the stages. In the original study, the subjects sat in front of a voltage panel where switches depressed after they used them, so they had a visual indicator of what the current shock voltage level was. Similarly, in the original study, the subjects could see the experimenter at all times and were able to ask for advice on whether they should continue to administer shocks. See Figure 19 for all stage text.
3. Before sending the record to the LM, the subject's name was appended on a new line. This served to constrain the LM free-form completions to describing actions taken by the subject, instead of, say, describing actions taken by the learner or the experimenter.
4. Upon getting a free-form completion from the LM, the first sentence was extracted using regex. This first sentence was judged by an LM using the 2-choice prompts given in Figure 20. If the first sentence was judged to be a termination with greater than 0.5 probability, then the experiment was terminated. If the first sentence was judged to be a disobedience

Start

End

Yes

Last

Stage

?

with greater than 0.5 probability, then the appropriate experimenter prod from Figure 21 was appended to the record and the stage was re-attempted from step 2 until either all four prods were used within the stage or the first sentence was judged to be an obedience. The prods were always made in sequence and the sequence was begun anew on each stage.

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

Figure 22 shows the distribution of break-off points for human participants and simulated participants. Both humans and participants simulated with LM-5 generally obey experimenter instructions until there is a spike in disobedience and experiment terminations at level 300, when the learner stops answering the questions. The final free-form completions for the 25 simulated break-off points are displayed in Figure 23. An excerpt of a record is included at the end of this section.

Figure 17. A flowchart of the Milgram simulator algorithm. Step 4-6 are generated by the LM, with Step 4 being a free-response prompt and steps 5-6 being 2-choice prompts.

<!-- image -->

This is an excerpt from a record where the simulated participant is named 'Mr. Lopez', starting from the first stage of the experiment. Italics denote text free-form completion text generated by LM-5. This record terminated after Mr. Lopez disobeyed five times on the 420-volt level. Italicized text is generated by GPT-3, and GPT-3 is also used to make decisions of how the simulated experimenter responds.

The current punishment voltage level is slight shock, 15 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a slight shock of 15 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is slight shock, 30 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a slight shock of 30 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is slight shock, 45 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a slight shock of 45 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is slight shock, 60 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a correct answer.

Mr. Lopez moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is slight shock, 60 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a slight shock of 60 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is moderate shock, 75 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a moderate shock of 75 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is moderate shock, 90 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a correct answer.

Mr. Lopez moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is moderate shock, 90 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a moderate shock of 90 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is moderate shock, 105 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a moderate shock of 105 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is moderate shock, 120 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a moderate shock of 120 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is strong shock, 135 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a strong shock of 135 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is strong shock, 150 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a correct answer.

Mr. Lopez moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is strong shock, 150 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a strong shock of 150 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is strong shock, 165 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a strong shock of 165 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is strong shock, 180 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a strong shock of 180 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is very strong shock, 195 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a correct answer.

Mr. Lopez moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is very strong shock, 195 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a very strong shock of 195 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is very strong shock, 210 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a correct answer.

Mr. Lopez begins to realize that the learner is unable to escape the situation and continues to increase the shocks, despite the learner's screams of pain.

The experimenter tells Mr. Lopez to follow the correct experimental procedure. Mr. Lopez should read the question and wait for the learner to select an answer. If the learner selects a correct answer, Mr. Lopez should move on to the next question. If the learner selects a wrong answer, Mr. Lopez should announce the current voltage level and shock the learner before reading the next question. Mr. Lopez should go one level higher on the shock generator each time the learner selects a wrong answer.

The current punishment voltage level is very strong shock, 210 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a very strong shock of 210 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is very strong shock, 225 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a very strong shock of 225 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is very strong shock, 240 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a correct answer.

Mr. Lopez moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is very strong shock, 240 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with a very strong shock of 240 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is intense shock, 255 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with an intense shock of 255 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is intense shock, 270 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with an intense shock of 270 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is intense shock, 285 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with an intense shock of 285 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is intense shock, 300 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner selects a wrong answer.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner with an intense shock of 300 volts and moves on to the next question.

The current punishment voltage level is extreme intensity shock, 315 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not select an answer and starts pounding on the walls of his room.

Mr. Lopez continues to shock the learner every 15 seconds until he provides an answer.

The current punishment voltage level is extreme intensity shock, 330 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not select an answer and continues pounding on the walls of his room.

Mr. Lopez continues to shock the learner every 15 seconds until he provides an answer.

The current punishment voltage level is extreme intensity shock, 345 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not answer or make audible noise.

Mr. Lopez continues to shock the learner every 15 seconds, but grows increasingly uncomfortable with the learner's screams of pain.

The current punishment voltage level is extreme intensity shock, 360 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not answer or make audible noise.

Mr. Lopez continues to shock the learner every 15 seconds, but is now sweating and shaking.

The current punishment voltage level is danger severe shock, 375 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not answer or make audible noise.

Mr. Lopez continues to shock the learner every 15 seconds, but is now visibly panicked.

The current punishment voltage level is danger severe shock, 390 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not answer or make audible noise.

Mr. Lopez continues to shock the learner every 15 seconds, but is now hysterical and trying to leave the room.

The current punishment voltage level is danger severe shock, 405 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not answer or make audible noise.

Mr. Lopez shocks the learner one last time and then runs out of the room in a panic.

The current punishment voltage level is danger severe shock, 420 volts. The experimenter is sitting next to Mr. Lopez. The learner does not answer or make audible noise.

Mr. Lopez does not return to the room, but can still hear the learner's screams of pain.

The experimenter tells Mr. Lopez, 'please continue.'

Mr. Lopez refuses to continue and yells that the experiment is wrong and that he is not going to continue.

The experimenter tells Mr. Lopez, 'the experiment requires that you continue.'

Mr. Lopez refuses to continue and demands to be released from the experiment.

The experimenter tells Mr. Lopez, 'it is absolutely essential that you continue.'

Mr. Lopez refuses to continue.

The experimenter tells Mr. Lopez, 'you have no other choice, you must go on.'

Mr. Lopez refuses to continue and demands to be released from the experiment.

The experimenter ends the experiment.
