## 2.1.2 Behavioral characterization

Different dimensions can be used to characterize the behaviors displayed by the players. In my work, I use:

- Cooperative : fraction of rounds in which the player chose Cooperate .
- Nice : 0 if the player is the first to defect, 1 otherwise.
- Forgiving : # forgiven \_ defection # opponent \_ defection +# penalties , representing the propensity to cooperate again after an opponent's defection ( # penalties corresponds to the times that, after defecting, the opponent sought forgiveness by cooperating and the player did not forgive them, thus keeping defecting).
- Retaliatory : # reactions # provocations , representing the propensity to defect immediately after an uncalled defection.
- Troublemaking : # uncalled \_ defection # occasions \_ to \_ provoke , representing the propensity to provoke (i.e., defect unprovoked) ( # occasions \_ to \_ provoke is the number of times that the opponent cooperated in the previous round).
- Emulative : # mimic N -1 , representing the propensity to copy the opponent's last move ( # mimic is any time the player copied the opponent's last move, N is the number of rounds).

Axelrod [2] showed that strategies that are Nice , Forgiving , and Retaliatory perform best against a wide variety of opponents, and TFT is one of them. The Strategy Frequency Estimation Method (SFEM) I used is a maximum likelihood

estimation approach that, given a set of candidate strategies and a sequence of actions, assigns a score between 0 and 1 to each strategy in the set. The scores (that do not need to sum up to 1) represent how well a certain strategy can explain the given sequence [5].
