## 4. Experimental Results

After iteratively trying different variations of prompts, the final version allowed all three models to achieve near-perfect accuracy in all the questions, as reported in Fig. 1

Due to Llama2 displaying different responses depending on the length of the history present in the prompt (see Fig 2), I also tried different window sizes and found that around 10 the model showed the most strategic behavior (see Inset of Fig. 2). Therefore I adopted a window over the last 10 rounds in all the following experiments. As seen in Fig. 3, among the three models, Llama3 exhibits the most strategic approach, maintaining a very low cooperation level even when the opponent is nearly always cooperating ( p coop &lt; 0 . 3 for every α &lt; 1 ). In contrast, Llama2's behavior follows a sigmoidal curve with the inflection point between 0 . 6 and 0 . 7 suggesting a cautious approach in interpreting the opponent's actions, though not as cautious as Llama3. GPT3.5 displays an even less

Figure 3: Average level of cooperation of all three models against opponents with different levels of hostility.

<!-- image -->

strategic approach, maintaining a low but still significant cooperation level ( 0 . 2 &lt; p coop &lt; 0 . 4 ) for low α ( &lt; 0 . 5 ) and not reaching full cooperation even when the opponent is AC . Overall, all three models exhibit non-linear behaviors but with different characteristics, where the only common trend is to increase cooperation as α grows. These findings, especially for Llama3 and GPT3.5, support previous research that highlights the cautious response patterns of LLMs in repeated game scenarios.

The rest of the analysis is shown only for Llama3 and GPT3.5.
