## 1. Introduction

Agent-based social simulation is used throughout the social and natural sciences (e.g. Poteete et al. (2010)). Historically, Agent-Based Modeling (ABM) methods have mostly been applied at a relatively abstract level of analysis, and this has limited their usefulness. For instance, insights from behavioral economics and related fields which study how people actually make decisions are rarely combined with ideas from institutional and resource economics in the same model despite the fact that integrating these two bodies of knowledge is thought to be critical for building up the full picture of how social-ecological systems function, and how interventions may help or hinder their governance (Schill et al., 2019). Now, using generative AI 1 , it is possible to construct a new generation of ABMs where the agents not only have a richer set of cognitive operations available for adaptive decision making but also communicate with one another in natural language.

Here we propose Generative Agent-Based Models (GABM)s, which are much more flexible and expressive than ABMs, and as a result can incorporate far more of the complexity of real social situations. Applying generative models within agents gives them common sense (imperfectly but still impressively) (Zhao et al., 2023), reasoning (Huang et al., 2022; Wei et al., 2022), planning (Song et al., 2023), few-shot learning (Brown et al., 2020; Bubeck et al., 2023), and common ground with one another e.g in understanding the meanings of words. Generative agents may be able to reason appropriately from premises to conclusions much of the time, and are typically able to predict the actions of others (Agüera y Arcas and Norvig, 2023; Bubeck et al., 2023). They also possess substantial cultural knowledge and can be prompted to 'role play' as simulated members of specific human subpopulations (Argyle et al., 2023; Safdari et al., 2023; Shanahan et al., 2023).

Concordia is a library to facilitate construction and use of GABMs to simulate interactions of

1 such as Anil et al. (2023); OpenAI (2023); Touvron et al. (2023); Workshop et al. (2022).

agents in grounded physical, social, or digital space. It makes it easy and flexible to define environments using an interaction pattern borrowed from tabletop role-playing games in which a special agent called the Game Master (GM) is responsible for simulating the environment where player agents interact (like a narrator in an interactive story). Agents take actions by describing what they want to do in natural language. The GM then translates their actions into appropriate implementations. In a simulated physical world the GM checks the physical plausibility of agent actions and describes their effects. In general, the GM can use any existing modeling technique to simulate the non-linguistic parts of the simulation (e.g. physical, chemical, digital, financial, etc). In digital environments involving software technologies, the GM may even connect with real apps and services by formatting the necessary API calls to integrate with external tools (as in Schick et al. (2023)). In the examples provided with the library we demonstrate how Concordia can be used to simulate a small town election, a small business, a dispute over a damaged property, a social psychology experiment, and a social planning scenario mediated through a digital app (see A.8 for details).

Validation. For a GABM to be useful we need some reason to trust that the results obtained with it may generalize to real human social life. Many aspects of model validation concern both GABMs and other kinds of ABMs (see Windrum et al. (2007)), while GABMs also raise new issues. While still surely a debatable point, we do think there will be some yet to be identified set of conditions under which we may gain a reasonable level of confidence that a model's predictions will generalize. Therefore we think identifying them should be highest priority right now for this nascent field (see also Dillion et al. (2023); Grossmann et al. (2023)).

There are no panaceas in model validation. GABMs constructed for different purposes call for validation by different forms of evidence. For example, many GABMs employ experiment designs featuring an intervention, which may involve either intervening on internal variables affecting

the cognition of an individual, e.g. 'how does rumination work?', or on external factors affecting the environment in which individuals interact, e.g. how are property rights implemented? Dependent outcome variables may be on the individual level, e.g. questionnaire responses, or on the societal level e.g. equality , sustainability , etc. WhenaGABMshowsthrough such an experiment that A causes B (in the model) we may regard it as a prediction that A causes B in the real world too. Sometimes this prediction is meant at a relatively detailed quantitative level (e.g. if the GABM was built in a way that incorporates substantial empirical data), while other times (more often) it would be intended as a statement either about a mechanism which may exist in real life or a prediction concerning the likely effect of something we may do in real life (such as to make a public policy change or deploy a technology). A GABM is said to generalize when inferences made on the basis of the model transfer to real life.

In evidence-based medicine and evidencebased policy making researchers are trained to consider an explicit hierarchy of evidence when evaluating the effect of interventions (Higgins et al., 2008). We may envision it like a ladder with highest rungs corresponding to the best evidence and lowest rungs corresponding to poor evidence. Evidence of effectiveness in real life (ecological validity) is at the top, rigorous experiments in controlled settings like labs or clinics below that, observational data lower down, and consistency with prior theory lower still. For validation, it also matters what the model will be used for. If it will only be used to guide decisions about where one may most fruitfully focus time, effort, and resources in further research (e.g., in piloting) then the evidence bar should be correspondingly lower than if the model is to be used to guide real world decisions with real consequences. Importantly, it is not really correct to speak of evidence for or against a theory. Theories can only really be judged by their 'productivity', i.e. the extent to which they motivate new work building on them further, especially new empirical research in real life (Lakatos, 1970). We discuss the hierarchy of evidence further in Section 2.3.

Digital media. In order to build models of contemporary social phenomena it is important to consider the substantial role the digital medium plays in modern communication and other activities, as well as how it shapes human interactions and decisions (Risse, 2023). Therefore, Concordia makes it possible to represent digital components such as apps, social networks, and general AI assistants within the simulation environment. This is critical since the medium through which information is transmitted is not passive but actively shapes the nature and impact of the message. Each medium has its own unique qualities, and those qualities have a transformative impact on society, culture, and individuals (McLuhan, 2017). For instance, the recommender algorithms used in social media have a substantial effect on human culture and society and the fact that LLM-based systems have analogous properties, affecting both how information is transmitted and how it is valued, implies they are likely to influence human culture and society more and more as time goes on (Brinkmann et al., 2023). By integrating digital elements into simulations, we aim to facilitate research that seeks to capture these qualities and the way they shape culture and society.

Moreover, the digital representation can have various degrees of abstraction from natural language prompting, via mock-up implementation to integration with real external services (e.g. by calling real APIs with generated text as in Schick et al. (2023)). The latter has great importance in enabling sandbox evaluation of real services with social agents, generating realistic data, as well as in evaluating real services.

These simulation techniques can also address the challenges of evaluating digital apps and general AI assistants (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT) in usercentric and intricate scenarios that demand the fulfillment of multiple constraints. Take, for instance, personal AI assistants that are designed to adapt to user preferences and respond to their requests. In such situations, the objective is intricate, rooted in satisfying a range of implicit and explicit constraints. It would be difficult to optimize without large amounts of natural data. Agent-based simulation can be used to generate synthetic data trails of agent activities to use in

Figure 1 | The high level structure of the simulation in Concordia. Generative agents consume observations and produce actions. The Game Master (GM) consumes agent actions and produces observations.

<!-- image -->

the absence of (and also in conjunction with) real data sources. This synthetic data may be useful both for training and evaluating models, as well as for simulating and analyzing the performance of scenario-specific interactions between an agent and an actual service. These proposed applications offer a viable alternative to traditional, human-centric methods, which are often expensive, not scalable, and less capable of handling such complex tasks.

Foundation models are poised to be transformative for agent-based social simulation methodology in the social and natural sciences. However, as with any large affordance change, research best-practices are currently in flux. There is no consensus at present concerning how to interpret results of LLM-based simulations of human populations. The critical epistemic question is 'by what standard should we judge whether (and in what ways, and under which conditions) the results of in silico experiments are likely to generalize to the real world?'. These are not questions any one group of researchers can answer by themselves; rather these issues must be negotiated by the community as a whole.

Concordia is an open invitation to the scientific community to participate in the creation of epistemic norms and best practices of GABM. We are releasing the library together with a few illustrative examples and intend to update it with new features and experiments. We will be reviewing and accepting contributions on regular basis.

Concordia requires access to a standard LLM API, and optionally may also integrate with real applications and services.

The rest of the paper is organised as follows. The following section 2 gives an overview of the Concordia library and how to design experiments in it. Section 3 presents several ways the Concordia agents and experiments can be interpreted. We discuss applications in section 4. Appendix A contains implementation details.

Concordia is available on GitHub 2 .
