## 3.1. Neuroscience interpretation of the generative agent architecture

Generative agents such as those in Concordia and in Park et al. (2023) are biologically plausible descriptions of the brain, at some level of analysis. They foreground a specific picture of cognition as a whole, which has not been especially prominent in the past despite its having considerable empirical support.

Recent experimental (Goldstein et al., 2022; Schrimpf et al., 2020) and theoretical (Linzen and Baroni, 2021; McClelland et al., 2020) work in computational cognitive (neuro-)science has posited a deep relationship between the operations of LLM models and how language is processed by the human brain. For instance, brainto-brain coupling of neural activity between a speaker and listener (as measured by electrocorticography) may be accounted for by LLM features reflecting conversation context (Goldstein et al., 2022). Representations appear first in the speaker before articulation and then reemerge after articulation in the listener (Zada et al., 2023).

The brain certainly appears to sample what it will say next in such a way as to complete any pattern it has started. This is how we can start speaking without knowing in advance how we will finish. There is more concrete evidence for this pattern completion view of behavior from split brain patients (patients whose brain hemispheres have been surgically disconnected as a treatment for epilepsy). For instance, you can present a reason for action to their left eye (i.e.

their right brain), it then prompts them to start performing the action with their left hand. And simultaneously present some other information to their right eye (left brain). Next ask them in language why they are doing it (i.e. ask their left brain, since language is lateralized). The result is that they make up a reason consistent with whatever information was presented to their left brain. Split brain patients typically express confidence in these confabulated (made up) reasons for action (Roser and Gazzaniga, 2004).

A Concordia agent has both a long-term memory and a working memory. The long-term memory is a set of sequences of symbols. The working memory is a single sequence of symbols. The contents of working memory are always in the conditioning set for the next-symbol prediction used to construct the agent's action sequence. At each decision point, a neural network performs incremental next-symbol prediction, starting from the contents of working memory z 𝑡 , eventually producing an articulatory symbol sequence 𝑎𝑡 to emit (i.e. for downstream motor circuitry to read out as speech). Information formatted as sequences of symbols gets in to working memory in one of two ways: either a sequence of symbols may be evoked directly from the current stimulus, or alternatively a sequence of symbols may be retrieved from long-term memory. A range of different perceptual mechanisms and retrieval mechanisms are jointly responsible for getting all the relevant information needed for the agent to produce an effective action sequence into its working memory (e.g. as in Park et al. (2023)).

To implement routine behavior, an agent could continually rehearse its routine in working memory, but that would impair its ability to use working memory for other purposes on other tasks since its working memory is limited in capacity (like in Baddeley (1992)). So instead of continually rehearsing routines in working memory, we may instead assume that they are often stored elsewhere and then retrieved when needed (i.e. from long-term memory).

As a result of being stored in a natural language representation, explicit routines are somewhat fragile. They may be hard to recall, and frequently forgotten if not used. When a routine

is not practiced often enough there is a risk of it being forgotten. Luckily, explicit routines may also be written down on paper (or stone tablets), and kept permanently.

A generative agent may also act as if it makes its decisions under guidance of an explicit routine while not actually being conditioned on any linguistic representation of that routine. This happens when the routine exists implicitly in the weights of the LLM's neural network. Unlike explicit routines, such implicitly coded routines may not be precisely articulable in natural language. For instance, one may follow the rule of 'avoiding obscenity' without being able to precisely articulate what obscenity is. In fact, Obscenity is famously so difficult to precisely define that US Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart could offer only the classification 'I know it when I see it'. Concordia agents can capture such recognitionmediated behavior by using fine-tuning to modify the LLM as needed.
