## 3.2. A theory of social construction

"Situations, organizations, and environments are talked into existence"

Weick et al. (2005)

In social construction theories, agents may change their environment through the collective effects of their actions on social structures like norms, roles, and institutions which together determine most of what matters about any given social situation. Furthermore, changes in the social structures constituting the environment deeply change the agents' own 'internal' models and categories (Wendt, 1992). Causal influence flows both from agents to social structures as well as from social structures to agents. Groups of agents may take collective action to change norms or institutions (Sunstein, 2019), and simultaneously social structures may influence agents by setting out the 'rules of the game' in which they select their actions (Wendt, 1987). Agents and structures may be said to co-constitute one another (Onuf, 1989).

The key questions of March and Olsen (2011), which we introduced in Section 2.1, were derived from a social constructionist conception of how agents make decisions. It posits that humans generally act as though they choose their actions by answering three key questions. People may construct parts of their understanding of 'what kind of person am I?' on the basis of their memory of their past behavior via logic such as 'I do this often, so I must like to do it' (Ouellette and Wood, 1998). Likewise, 'what kind of situation is this?' is usually informed by culturally defined categories like institutions, e.g. this is a classroom and I am in the role of the professor. And, 'what does a person such as I do in a situation such as this?' may be answered by recalling examples to mind of people fitting certain social roles in similar situations and the way they behaved in them (Harris et al., 2021; Sunstein, 1996).

Since modern LLMs have been trained on massive amounts of human culture they thus may be capable of giving satisfactory answers to these questions when provided with the right context to create a specific agent. This approach relies on the extent to which the outputs of LLMs conditioned to simulate specific human subpopulations actually reflect the beliefs and attitudes of those subpopulations. Argyle et al. (2023) termed this property of some LLMs algorithmic fidelity and the concept was further developed and measured in (Amirova et al., 2023; Santurkar et al., 2023). From the perspective of generative agent-based modeling, we can now say that the social construction that already took place in human culture, and subsequently absorbed by the LLM, becomes the background knowledge of the agents in the GABM. If humans in the culture that produced the LLM have a particular bias then so too will agents in the simulation. Likewise, if the humans in the culture that produced the LLM ascribe meaning to a particular understanding, then so too will the agents in the simulation, at least they will say so.

In the past, theories of social construction have been criticized because they lacked concrete predictive implementations in the form of computational models. This is because it was difficult to construct agent-based models without relying either on rational maximization or hand-coded

(i.e. theory-based) rules. Generative agent-based modeling as in Concordia relies on neither. Instead the generative agent-based modeling approach relies on access to an LLM to give meaning to the actions within the simulation. The LLM is a product of the culture that produced it 6 . This makes Concordia especially useful as a tool for constructing concrete computational models in accord with theories of social construction.

Social construction also operates on levels of analysis smaller than the culture as a whole. For instance, social construction may happen locally within an organization. Weick et al. (2005) offers an analysis in which members of an organization repeat behavioral patterns, which are prescribed by their roles, up until the moment they no longer can. Some change in their environment eventually forces their routines to end, and when that happens they have to engage in sense-making by asking themselves 'what is the story here?' and 'what should I do now?' by retrospectively connecting their past experiences and engaging in dialogue with other members of the organization. New social facts and routines can emerge from this sense-making process.

Concordia can be used to implement models where such local social construction processes occur actively, as a part of the ongoing simulation. This is possible because Concordia agents learn facts from each other and from their collective interactions. As in Weick et al. (2005)'s picture of collective sense-making in an organization, a set of Concordia agents may continue routines until disrupted and once disrupted naturally transition to a process of collective reflection until they are able to establish a new routine and rationale for it. If we additionally train the LLM itself then the underlying representations can be shaped to fit the emergent routine and rationale. Developing this ability for agents to collectively engage in the social construction of their own representations will be important for developing better models of human-like multi-scale social interactions.

As with other ABM approaches, a major topic of interest is how large-scale 'macrosocial' pat-

6 For some choices of LLM, it's not unreasonable to think of the LLM as representing the 'collective unconscious' (Jung, 1959).

terns emerge from the 'microsocial' decisions of individuals (Macy and Willer, 2002), as explored, for example, in assemblage theory (DeLanda, 2011, 2016). For instance, the collective social phenomena of information diffusion emerged in the simulation of Park et al. (2023) without specific programming to enable it. The generative agent's ability to copy, communicate, reproduce, and modify behavioral and thinking patterns potentially makes them a substrate for cultural evolution.

Importantly, social construction theories hold that valuation is itself social constructed. The reason we value a particular object may not depend much on properties of the object itself, but rather depend almost wholly on the attitudes others like us place on the object. The collective dynamics of social valuation, as mediated through bandwagon effects and the like, have proven important in understanding fashion cycles and financial bubbles (Zuckerman, 2012). The fact that we are now able to capture valuation changes with Concordia agents is an exciting research direction. It would be difficult even to formulate such questions in the fundamentally goal optimizing frameworks we discuss in the next section. On the other hand, GABM excels at modeling such effects since it does not require valuations in themselves for any functional part of the theory.
