## 3.3.1. Concordia agents are not reinforcement learners

Generative view of agency presented in this paper contrasts with the classic Reinforcement Learning (RL) view as summarized in the 'Reward is enough' thesis of Silver et al. (2021). The orthodox RL view of behaviour is that it is constructed from individual experience and driven by a quantifiable (and externally supplied) reward function reflecting the achievement of goals. To communicate what behaviour is desired of the agent, one has to annotate the agents' activity with a reward signal, which signals goal achievement. Here we instead follow the social constructionist view of agency expressed in March and Olsen (2011), where behavior is an expression of the agent's position in the social context, and what policy the social norms prescribe for the agent in such

7 Note that this does not mean powerful generative agents would necessarily be safer than powerful consequentialist agents. See Section 4.5.

a position. Answering 'what does a person such as I do in a situation such as this?' might require positing a practical goal and achieving it ('make money', 'get famous'), but goals are qualitative, dynamic and context dependent. To specify the behavior you want an agent to produce you need to communicate its social context and the agents position within it.

One interpretation holds the LLM to be a library of pre-trained options (in the RL sense (Sutton et al., 1999)). In this case we can view the components used in the generative agent as eliciting the desired option, by conditioning (prompting) the LLM with their state (which is in this case expressed in English). Concordia agents are constantly interacting with the world (GM) and each other, thereby modifying their components with the incoming information and communication. This way the option selection becomes dynamic, context sensitive, and collaborative. Concordia agents adapt their behaviour not through gradient decent on a loss function, but through re-articulating and communicating their descriptions of themselves and their circumstances to each other and he environment in a communicative, social process.

Notice, that this doesn't mean that Concordia agents couldn't, in principle, perform reward maximisation and policy iteration. Brooks et al. (2023) have shown that the ability of LLMs to learn in-context (Brown et al., 2020) can be used to perform policy iteration in classic RL environments, as long as they can be represented as text. One could also implement a specialised component that runs a classic RL algorithm for a specific domain or tool use case. The agent could provide supervision to its RL based components via hierarchical RL techniques like feudal RL (Dayan and Hinton, 1992; Vezhnevets et al., 2017).
