## 3.3.2. Concordia agents are not rational utility maximizers

Concordia agents are not Homo economicus -style rational actors. They do not explicitly represent anything resembling a utility function. Rather they plan and converse directly in natural language.

While Concordia agents share with Homo economicus -style rational actors the property of being prospective ('model-based') decision makers. The surface similarity is in fact misleading since the LLM's basic operation is to predict what word is coming next in the problem's description, not to predict what action should be taken next to achieve some goal. As result, this model of agents make decisions is very different from the forward planning picture of human cognition envisioned in the rational actor model. They do not select actions by simulating a set of future trajectories in which they took different courses of action to determine which turns out best. Instead the prediction they make concerns only the continuation of the text held in working memory.

The novel idea underpinning GABMs is that all agent behavior may result from systematically querying a system trained to predict the next word in massive internet-scale text datasets. This is enough for them to be able to converse with one another in natural language and take appropriate actions in light of their conversations. Concordia agents all have their own unique biographies, memories, preferences, and plans. And as a result, they behave systematically differently from one another. They may act in a seemingly goal-directed fashion if you 'ask them' to do so (e.g. they may appear rational if you prompt them to simulate economists, an effect reminiscent of Carter and Irons (1991); Frank et al. (1993) which showed economics undergraduates were more likely to behave like rational self-interested maximizers in laboratory experiments). But there is no utility function under the hood.

It is useful to contrast game-theoretic modeling with GABM to illustrate the differences. Despite its wide-ranging influence (game theoretic approaches have been used to model diverse phenomena including many economic properties and the evolution of human culture), game theory is not at all a neutral tool, rather it is a deeply opinionated modeling language. It imposes a strict requirement that everything must ultimately cash out in terms of the payoff matrix (or equivalent representation) (Luce and Raiffa, 1957). This means that the modeler has to know, or be willing to assume, everything about how the effects of individual actions combine to generate incentives. This is sometimes appropriate, and the game theoretic approach has had many successes. However, game theory's major weakness as a modeling language is exposed in situations where the modeler does not fully understand how the choices of individuals combine to generate payoffs (Hertz et al., 2023). GABM entirely avoids this need to specify payoffs at the outset of the modeling process.
