## 4.1.2. Digital function representations

The specific implementation or representation of a function is flexible and can be chosen depending on desired goal. We list a few examples of possible representations:

1. Natural language only - No function implementation, only user utterance based on apps prompting. For instance, 'Bob plans his trip on the TripAdvisor app.', while the action is logged in free text there is no function implementing 'plan\_trip'. This does not simulate behavior end to end and have limited digital assets (example a calendar invite

Figure 5 | The given example demonstrates a scenario rooted in digital technology where the actions of the agent initiate processes in their phone, involving three key components (activation, API conversion, and action querying). In this scenario, Alice intends to organize a meeting with Bob using her phone. She opts to employ the calendar application for scheduling.

<!-- image -->

- can't be sent without a mechanism to pass the information to another agent)
2. Simulated simple app behavior - Building basic code components emulating real app behavior with required digital assets such as app memory and logs. For example, a calendar app will maintain a data structure that will represent a calendar to which we can add, remove and read meetings.
3. LLM prompt based - App functions can also be implemented by prompting an LLM. For example, Search can be implemented by querying an LLM to act as a search engine and retrieve information, the same for a trip planner.
4. Real app integration - integration with a real app API Instead of emulating behavior, which would make the simulation function as a sandbox to test drive and evaluate different experiences in shorter development cycles before releasing them to human testers. An immediate example can be Search, one can directly query a search engine with a question and receive information. Another exam-

ple is to integrate a general AI assistant and enable the simulated agent, functioning as a user, to interact with it through the simulation.
