## 4.2. Data generation and service evaluation

In modern systems, data is the new king. A large amount of high-quality data is needed in order to build and evaluate services and models. Yet, collecting and curating user data is often challenging, especially when dealing with personal user data where privacy is of high concern. This creates a chicken-egg scenario, where data is needed for building of modern systems yet users might be reluctant to provide said that without immediate benefit.

Moreover, when considering the case of evaluating personalized services where each instance is specific and tailored to the individual user, it makes the problem even more substantial. How can one A/B test a personalized service at the single user level?

The grounded action space illustrated in the last section offers a conceptual way to overcome some of these challenges by simulating synthetic users and allowing them to interact with real services. This can allow generation of synthetic user activity by constructing, via simulation, agent digital action logs along with agent reasoning for each action. This data can serve as training data, or evaluation. By repeated simulation with different services configurations, one can perform at the single user level A/B testing of a service.

Nevertheless, it is important to note that this concept is contingent on the ability of the underlying LLM and system to faithfully capture user experience and realistic behaviour. Therefore the viability of this approach is highly dependent on the representation and reasoning power of the LLM, and the use of best practices.
