## 4.3. Sequential social dilemmas experiments in silico

Concordia adds to the toolbox for studying multiagent problems such as resource management, social dilemmas, commons problems, cooperation, equilibrium selection, and coordination (Leibo et al., 2017, 2021). Previously these problems have either been cast as matrix games or as multiagent RL (MARL) (Hertz et al., 2023). Now it is clear that many researchers, including us, see that an LLM-based approach is possible and will have many advantages, as evidenced by the fact that quite a few frameworks for social modeling with LLMs appeared this year (Kaiya et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2023; Zhou et al., 2023). We see generative agents as the next step in the evolutionary line of 'model animals' after 'Homo-economicus' and 'Homo-RLicus'.

Generative agent-based modeling makes it possible to investigate how rules, laws and social norms formulated in language influence, for example, the management of shared resources (e.g. Yocum et al. (2023)). With Concordia we will be able to investigate whether the demands of sharing a resource give rise to rules, laws and norms capable of governing that resource (and under what circumstances this works or does not)i.e. whether rules are emergent, and what the conditions are for their emergence. For example, Hadfield and Weingast (2013) proposed that legal order can emerge without centralised enforcement in certain circumstances. They demonstrate this using historical examples from gold-rush in California and medieval Iceland. Concordia could be used to simulate those examples and enable further insights into the nature of legal order. For example, we could check whether certain demographic assumptions are necessary by varying the number of agents.
