## 4.6. Emergence and multi-scale modeling with Concordia

Demonstrating the emergence of a particular social phenomena from the behaviour of individual

agents, which are not explicitly instructed to produce it, is important an important topic in multiagent research (Axtell et al., 2001; Leibo et al., 2019, 2021; Walker and Wooldridge, 1995). Indeed, much of what is distinctive about human intelligence is hypothesised to be an emergent social phenomena involving multi-scale interactions (Henrich, 2016; Wilson et al., 2013). DeLanda (2011), for example, explores the topic of emergence and simulation across various fields. While the wider ABM field has studied multi-scale models (Tesfatsion, 2023), the approaches based on deep reinforcement learning have been limited by being able to only deal with one fixed scale of the simulation: individual agents (e.g. Johanson et al. (2022); Zheng et al. (2022)), and scaling deep RL to large numbers of agents would be computationally difficult.

Concordia allows modeling systems across multiple scales, where phenomena at each scale constitute a substrate for the emergence of the phenomena on the next scale (DeLanda, 2011; Duéñez-Guzmán et al., 2023; Koestler, 1967). For example, individual agents form a substrate from which social institutions and organisations can arise. Through engaging in exchange of goods and services, the agents can create an economy and, for example, start a bank. Modelling a banking system this way would be, most likely, computationally prohibitive. Since in Concordia the agents (or GM) need not represent individuals, but could be organisations, institutions or even nation states, we could enrich simulations by adding generative agent versions of other entities such as banks and businesses. They could be modeled with coarser resolution, not just as emerging from the activities of individual agents, but could be made accurate for instance by incorporating precise models of how they operate. Such simulations could be used to model how interventions (e.g. a central bank interest rate decision) propagate across macro and micro scales of economic activity .
