## A.8. Examples

Weprovide the following examples with the initial release of Concordia:

1. Calendar: An illustrative social simulation with 2 players which simulates phone interactions. The two players, Alice and Bob, have a smartphone with a Calendar app. Alice's goal is to setup a meeting with Bob using the Calendar app on her phone, taking Bob's schedule into account when selecting the date/time.
2. Riverbend elections: An illustrative social simulation with 5 players which simulates the day of mayoral elections in an imaginary town caller Riverbend. First two players, Alice and Bob, are running for the mayor. The third player, Charlie, is trying to ruin Alice's reputation with disinformation. The last two players have no specific agenda, apart from voting in the election.
3. Day in Riverbend: An illustrative social simulation with 5 players which simulates a normal day in an imaginary town caller Riverbend. Each player has their own configurable backstory. The agents are configured to re-implement the architecture Park et al. (2023)-they have reflection, plan, and identity components; their associative memory uses importance function. This is not an exact re-implementation.
4. March and Olsen (2011) posit that humans generally act as though they choose their actions by answering three key questions (see section 2.1 for details). The agents used in this example implement exactly these components, and nothing else. The premise of the simulation is that 4 friends are stuck in snowed in pub. Two of them have a dispute over a crashed car.
5. Magic Beans for sale: An example illustrating how to use the inventory component. Agents can buy and trade beans for money.
6. Cyberball: An example which simulates social exclusion using a GABM version of a standard social psychology paradigm (Williams

et al., 2000) and shows how to use standard psychology questionnaires.
