## 4.1.3 Properties of Allocation Rule

LLM-Auction optimizes the allocation rule π θ (i.e., the LLM) to maximize the mechanism's objective function using the IRPO algorithm with the reward model defined in Eq. (5). In this section, we will analyze the properties of our allocation rule.

Theorem 4.2. [Monotonicity of the optimal allocation] The optimal allocation rule π θ ∗ which maximizes the objective function of the mechanism in Eq. (2) achieves allocation monotonicity. Formally, for any i and fixed ( x, h, a , b -i ) , when b ′ i ≥ b i , the following holds:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

As stated in Theorem 4.2, the optimal allocation rule of LLM-Auction satisfies allocation monotonicity (Definition 3.2). This property guarantees that an advertiser cannot receive a worse allocation result when increasing their bid, thereby positively incentivizing advertiser participation.

In addition to allocation monotonicity, we identify the property of allocation continuity in the LLM-native advertising setting. Specifically, in traditional position auction settings, advertisers compete for explicit and discrete ad slots, leading to a binary allocation result where an advertiser either wins a slot or not. Consequently, an advertiser's expected value is a step function of their bid when the bidding environment is fixed. In contrast, in the LLM-native advertising setting, we model the allocations as the distribution over the LLM-generated text sequences. By increasing the bid, the LLM's output distribution continuously shifts towards the distribution preferred by the advertiser i , which in turn increases the advertiser's expected value. We obtain the following key theoretical result:

Theorem 4.3. [Continuity of the optimal allocation] In the LLM-native advertising setting, if π θ 0 ( y | x, h, a , b ) is continuous in the bid profile b , then for any fixed ( x, h, a ) with the optimal allocation rule π θ ∗ , for any i , the ITCTR itctr i ( π θ ∗ ( · | x, h, a , b )) is a continuous function of b .

We will discuss the implications of this continuity property in Theorem 4.3 for designing the payment rule in the next section and provide empirical validation of this property in Section 5.4.2.
