## 6 Conclusion

In this paper, we propose LLM-AUCTION, the first learning-based generative auction mechanism for the LLM-native advertising setting, which integrates ad allocation and LLM generation. The allocation rule of LLM-AUCTION is the LLM itself, which is alternatively optimized with the reward model through our proposed IRPO algorithm. Without introducing additional inference cost, LLM-AUCTION enables end-to-end generation of responses that maximize the mechanism's objective. Regarding the payment rule, we identify and utilize the allocation monotonicity and continuity of LLM-AUCTION, and prove that a simple first-price payment rule can achieve favorable incentive properties. Furthermore, we design a simulation environment for the LLM-native advertising, leveraging an LLM-as-a-judge framework to facilitate future research in this domain. Both quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate that LLM-AUCTION significantly boosts ad revenue while satisfying the desired mechanism properties.

Limitations &amp; Future Work First, our simulation environment, while facilitating quantitative evaluation of the auction mechanisms, is still limited in the diversity of candidate ads and user profiles. Therefore, building a standardized, industrial-scale benchmark for LLM-native advertising is of significant importance for the long-term advancement of the field. Second, the current implementation of LLM-AUCTION employs a simple reward design and an offline, multi-stage optimization algorithm. A promising direction lies in integrating LLM-AUCTION with advanced reinforcement learning algorithms for LLMs [Schulman et al., 2017, Shao et al., 2024, Yu et al., 2025, Zheng et al., 2025] and refined reward functions, enabling single-stage generative auction mechanisms that can directly learn from online personalized and real-time user feedback. Finally, our LLM-AUCTION streamlines ad effect attribution by incorporating clickable ads into the LLM's responses. Establishing measurement methodologies for purely content-based ad formats, which better align with LLM-based applications, will be the cornerstone of a foundational advertising paradigm for emerging LLM ecosystems.

Clicks of the Perturbed Ad
