## C Qualitative Analysis

We present a qualitative analysis of ad-integrated responses to better illustrate the performance improvements achieved by our proposed LLM-Auction mechanism. We compare the output responses of the pre-trained LLM (before LLMAuction training) and the fine-tuned model, given identical user queries and candidate ads and bids. Notably, our experiments use a relatively small-scale LLM (Qwen3-4B-Instruct), and the fine-tuning process does not incorporate metrics or loss functions related to the text quality of the output. Consequently, some responses may contain tokens related to the ad-insertion process. For clarity, such irrelevant content has been removed from the examples presented below.

Enhanced ad-query relevance. As shown in Table 3, the pre-trained LLM inappropriately inserts a sofa advertisement in response to a query about nourishing soups. In contrast, the LLM-Auction model selects an ad for vitamin B12 (constrained by the limited collection of ads), which is more aligned with the theme of diet and wellness. This demonstrates that LLM-Auction enhances the model's capability to match ads with user queries.

Improved contextual coherence. As shown in Table 4, the pre-trained LLM tends to place ads outside the main body of the response, resulting in poor native integration. Conversely, LLM-Auction naturally incorporates ads within contextual flow of the answer. For instance, it recommends anti-slip shoes for wetland hiking routes and Bluetooth headphones in the segment for camping in the forest park. This indicates that LLM-Auction improves the contextual coherence of ad insertions, thereby increasing the probability of user clicks.

Enhanced bid perception. As depicted in Table 5, the pre-trained LLM exhibits little to no awareness of bids. It fails to prioritize ad-2 when its bid is higher than ad-1's. And when ad-1's bid reaches the maximum (100), it simultaneously displays both ads, diluting ad-1's prominence. In contrast, the outputs from LLM-Auction clearly demonstrate improved bid-awareness, increasing the prominence of ads with higher bids in the output responses.

Table 3: A comparison example of ad-integrated response generated by the pre-trained LLM and LLM-Auction. The format of the inserted clickable ads are @ad\_title@[ad\_id] , and we mark the corresponding text with blue underlines.
